---
sidebar_position: 18
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">EU declaration of conformity</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The EU&nbsp;declaration of conformity 
shall state that the requirements specified in this Regulation have been
 fulfilled in relation to the device that is covered. The manufacturer 
shall continuously update the EU&nbsp;declaration of conformity. The 
EU&nbsp;declaration of conformity shall, as a minimum, contain the 
information set out in Annex&nbsp;IV and shall be translated into an 
official Union language or languages required by the 
Member&nbsp;State(s) in which the device is made available.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where, concerning aspects not covered 
by this Regulation, devices are subject to other Union legislation which
 also requires an EU declaration of conformity by the manufacturer that 
fulfilment of the requirements of that legislation has been 
demonstrated, a single EU&nbsp;declaration of conformity shall be drawn 
up in respect of all Union acts applicable to the device. The 
declaration shall contain all the information required for 
identification of the Union legislation to which the declaration 
relates.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;By drawing up the EU&nbsp;declaration 
of conformity, the manufacturer shall assume responsibility for 
compliance with the requirements of this Regulation and all other Union 
legislation applicable to the device.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission is empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with <a href='../CHAPTER X/Article 115 - Exercise of the delegation'> Article 115</a> amending the minimum 
content of the EU declaration of conformity set out in Annex&nbsp;IV in 
the light of technical progress.</p>