---
sidebar_position: 105
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Provision of scientific, technical and clinical opinions and advice</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall, by means of 
implementing acts and in consultation with the MDCG, make provision for 
expert panels to be designated for the assessment of the clinical 
evaluation in relevant medical fields as referred to in paragraph&nbsp;9
 of this Article&nbsp;and to provide views in accordance with 
<a href='../CHAPTER IV/Article 48 - Peer review and exchange of experience between authorities responsible for notified bodies'> Article 48</a>(6) of Regulation&nbsp;(EU)&nbsp;2017/746 on the 
performance evaluation of certain <span class="italics">in vitro</span> 
diagnostic medical devices and, where necessary, for categories or 
groups of devices, or for specific hazards relating to categories or 
groups of devices, observing the principles of highest scientific 
competence, impartiality, independence and transparency. The same 
principles shall apply where the Commission decides to appoint expert 
laboratories in accordance with paragraph&nbsp;7 of this Article.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Expert panels and expert laboratories 
may be designated in areas where the Commission, in consultation with 
the MDCG, has identified a need for the provision of consistent 
scientific, technical and/or clinical advice or laboratory expertise in 
relation to the implementation of this Regulation. Expert panels and 
expert laboratories may be appointed on a standing or temporary basis.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Expert panels shall consist of advisors
 appointed by the Commission on the basis of up-to-date clinical, 
scientific or technical expertise in the field and with a geographical 
distribution that reflects the diversity of scientific and clinical 
approaches in the Union. The Commission shall determine the number of 
members of each panel in accordance with the requisite needs.</p>
   <p class="norm">The members of expert panels shall perform their 
tasks with impartiality and objectivity. They shall neither seek nor 
take instructions from notified bodies or manufacturers. Each member 
shall draw up a declaration of interests, which shall be made publicly 
available.</p>
   <p class="norm">The Commission shall establish systems and procedures to actively manage and prevent potential conflicts of interest.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Expert panels shall take into account 
relevant information provided by stakeholders including patients' 
organisations and healthcare professionals when preparing their 
scientific opinions.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission, following consultation 
with the MDCG, may appoint advisors to expert panels following 
publication in the <span class="italics">Official Journal of the European Union</span>
 and on the Commission website following a call for expressions of 
interest. Depending on the type of task and the need for specific 
expertise, advisors may be appointed to the expert panels for a maximum 
period of three years and their appointment may be renewed.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission, following consultation 
with the MDCG, may include advisors on a central list of available 
experts who, whilst not being formally appointed to a panel, are 
available to provide advice and to support the work of the expert panel 
as needed. That list shall be published on the Commission website.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission may, by means of 
implementing acts and following consultation with the MDCG, designate 
expert laboratories, on the basis of their expertise in:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">physico-chemical characterisation, or</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">microbiological, biocompatibility, mechanical, electrical, electronic or non-clinical biological and toxicological testing</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">of specific devices, categories or groups of devices.</p>
   <p class="norm">The Commission shall only designate expert 
laboratories for which a Member&nbsp;State or the Joint Research Centre 
has submitted an application for designation.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;Expert laboratories shall satisfy the following criteria:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">have adequate and appropriately qualified staff
 with adequate knowledge and experience in the field of the devices for 
which they are designated;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">possess the necessary equipment to carry out the tasks assigned to them;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">have the necessary knowledge of international standards and best practices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">have an appropriate administrative organisation and structure;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">ensure that their staff observe the confidentiality of information and data obtained in carrying out their tasks.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;Expert panels appointed for clinical 
evaluation in relevant medical fields shall fulfil the tasks provided 
for in <a href='../CHAPTER V/Article 54 - Clinical evaluation consultation procedure for certain class III and class IIb devices'> Article 54</a>(1) and <a href='../CHAPTER VI/Article 61 - Clinical evaluation'> Article 61</a>(2) and Section&nbsp;5.1 of
 Annex&nbsp;IX or Section&nbsp;6 of Annex&nbsp;X, as applicable.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;Expert panels and expert laboratories may have the following tasks, depending on the requisite needs:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to provide scientific, technical and clinical 
assistance to the Commission and the MDCG in relation to the 
implementation of this Regulation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to contribute to the development and maintenance of appropriate guidance and CS for:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">clinical investigations,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">clinical evaluation and PMCF,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">performance studies,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">performance evaluation and post-market performance follow-up,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">physico-chemical characterisation, and</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">microbiological, biocompatibility, mechanical, electrical, electronic or non-clinical toxicological testing</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <p class="list">for specific devices, or a category or group of devices, or for specific hazards related to a category or group of devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to develop and review clinical evaluation 
guidance and performance evaluation guidance for performance of 
conformity assessment in line with the state of the art with regard to 
clinical evaluation, performance evaluation, physico-chemical 
characterisation, and microbiological, biocompatibility, mechanical, 
electrical, electronic or non-clinical toxicological testing;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to contribute to the development of standards at international level, ensuring that such standards reflect the state of the art;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to provide opinions in response to 
consultations by manufacturers in accordance with <a href='../CHAPTER VI/Article 61 - Clinical evaluation'> Article 61</a>(2), 
notified bodies and Member&nbsp;States in accordance with 
paragraphs&nbsp;11 to 13 of this Article.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to contribute to identification of concerns and emerging issues on the safety and performance of medical devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to provide views in accordance with 
<a href='../CHAPTER IV/Article 48 - Peer review and exchange of experience between authorities responsible for notified bodies'> Article 48</a>(4) of Regulation&nbsp;(EU)&nbsp;2017/746 on the 
performance evaluation of certain <span class="italics">in vitro</span> diagnostic medical devices.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission, shall facilitate the 
access of Member&nbsp;States and notified bodies and manufacturers to 
advice provided by expert panels and expert laboratories concerning, <span class="italics">inter&nbsp;alia</span>,
 the criteria for an appropriate data set for assessment of the 
conformity of a device, in particular with regard to the clinical data 
required for clinical evaluation, with regard to physico-chemical 
characterisation, and with regard to microbiological, biocompatibility, 
mechanical, electrical, electronic and non-clinical toxicological 
testing.</p>
   <p class="norm">12.&nbsp;&nbsp;When adopting its scientific opinion 
in accordance with paragraph&nbsp;9, the members of the expert panels 
shall use their best endeavours to reach consensus. If consensus cannot 
be reached, the expert panels shall decide by a majority of their 
members, and the scientific opinion shall mention the divergent 
positions and the grounds on which they are based.</p>
   <p class="norm">The Commission shall publish the scientific opinion 
and advice delivered in accordance with paragraphs 9 and 11 of this 
Article, ensuring consideration of aspects of confidentiality as set out
 in <a href='../CHAPTER IX/Article 109 - Confidentiality'> Article 109</a>. The clinical evaluation guidance referred to in 
point&nbsp;(c) of paragraph&nbsp;10 shall be published following 
consultation with the MDCG.</p>
   <p class="norm">13.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission may require 
manufacturers and notified bodies to pay fees for the advice provided by
 expert panels and expert laboratories. The structure and the level of 
fees as well as the scale and structure of recoverable costs shall be 
adopted by the Commission by means of implementing acts, taking into 
account the objectives of the adequate implementation of this 
Regulation, protection of health and safety, support of innovation and 
cost-effectiveness and the necessity to achieve active participation in 
the expert panels. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
<a href='../CHAPTER X/Article 114 - Committee procedure'> Article 114</a>(3).</p>
   <p class="norm">14.&nbsp;&nbsp;The fees payable to the Commission in 
accordance with the procedure under paragraph&nbsp;13 of this 
Article&nbsp;shall be set in a transparent manner and on the basis of 
the costs for the services provided. The fees payable shall be reduced 
in the case of a clinical evaluation consultation procedure initiated in
 accordance with point&nbsp;(c) of Section&nbsp;5.1 of Annex&nbsp;IX 
involving a manufacturer who is a micro, small or medium-sized 
enterprise within the meaning of Recommendation&nbsp;2003/361/EC.</p>
   <p class="norm">15.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission is empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with <a href='../CHAPTER X/Article 115 - Exercise of the delegation'> Article 115</a> to amend the tasks of
 expert panels and expert laboratories referred to in paragraph&nbsp;10 
of this Article.</p>