---
sidebar_position: 72
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Electronic system on clinical investigations</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall, in collaboration 
with the Member&nbsp;States, set up, manage and maintain an electronic 
system:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to create the single identification numbers for clinical investigations referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER VI/Article 70 - Application for clinical investigations'> Article 70</a>(1);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to be used as an entry point for the submission
 of all applications or notifications for clinical investigations 
referred to in Articles&nbsp;70, 74, 75 and 78 and for all other 
submission of data, or processing of data in this context;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">for the exchange of information relating to 
clinical investigations in accordance with this Regulation between the 
Member&nbsp;States and between them and the Commission including the 
exchange of information referred to in Articles&nbsp;70 and&nbsp;76;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">for information to be provided by the sponsor 
in accordance with <a href='../CHAPTER VI/Article 77 - Information from the sponsor at the end of a clinical investigation or in the event of a temporary halt or early termination'> Article 77</a>, including the clinical investigation
 report and its summary as required in paragraph&nbsp;5 of that Article;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">for reporting on serious adverse events and device deficiencies and related updates referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER VI/Article 80 - Recording and reporting of adverse events that occur during clinical investigations'> Article 80</a>.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;When setting up the electronic system 
referred in paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article, the Commission shall 
ensure that it is interoperable with the EU database for clinical trials
 on medicinal products for human use set up in accordance with 
<a href='../CHAPTER VI/Article 81 - Implementing acts'> Article 81</a> of Regulation&nbsp;(EU)&nbsp;No&nbsp;536/2014 of the 
European Parliament and of the Council&nbsp;(<a href="#E0004" id="src.E0004">
         <span class="superscript">4</span>
      </a>) as concerns combined clinical investigations of devices with a clinical trial under that Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The information referred to in 
point&nbsp;(c) of paragraph&nbsp;1 shall only be accessible to the 
Member&nbsp;States and the Commission. The information referred to in 
the other points of that paragraph&nbsp;shall be accessible to the 
public, unless, for all or parts of that information, confidentiality of
 the information is justified on any of the following grounds:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">protection of personal data in accordance with Regulation&nbsp;(EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;45/2001;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">protection of commercially confidential 
information, especially in the investigators brochure, in particular 
through taking into account the status of the conformity assessment for 
the device, unless there is an overriding public interest in disclosure;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">effective supervision of the conduct of the clinical investigation by the Member&nbsp;State(s) concerned.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;No&nbsp;personal data of subjects shall be publicly available.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The user interface of the electronic 
system referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 shall be available in all 
official languages of the Union.</p>