
---
sidebar_position: 38
---
        <h3>notified-bodies</h3>
<h1>Assessment-of-the-application</h1>
<h2>Article 39</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Assessment of the application</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall within 30 days check that the application referred to in 
Article&nbsp;38 is complete and shall request the applicant to provide 
any missing information. Once the application is complete that authority
 shall send it to the Commission.</p>
   <p class="norm">The authority responsible for notified bodies shall 
review the application and supporting documentation in accordance with 
its own procedures and shall draw up a preliminary assessment report.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall submit the preliminary assessment report to the Commission 
which shall immediately transmit it to the MDCG.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Within 14 days of the submission 
referred to in paragraph&nbsp;2 of this Article, the Commission, in 
conjunction with the MDCG, shall appoint a joint assessment team made up
 of three experts, unless the specific circumstances require a different
 number of experts, chosen from the list referred to in 
Article&nbsp;40(2). One of the experts shall be a representative of the 
Commission who shall coordinate the activities of the joint assessment 
team. The other two experts shall come from Member&nbsp;States other 
than the one in which the applicant conformity assessment body is 
established.</p>
   <p class="norm">The joint assessment team shall be comprised of 
experts who are competent to assess the conformity assessment activities
 and the types of devices which are the subject of the application or, 
in particular when the assessment procedure is initiated in accordance 
with Article&nbsp;47(3), to ensure that the specific concern can be 
appropriately assessed.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Within 90 days of its appointment, the 
joint assessment team shall review the documentation submitted with the 
application in accordance with Article&nbsp;38. The joint assessment 
team may provide feedback to, or require clarification from, the 
authority responsible for notified bodies on the application and on the 
planned on-site assessment.</p>
   <p class="norm">The authority responsible for notified bodies 
together with the joint assessment team shall plan and conduct an 
on-site assessment of the applicant conformity assessment body and, 
where relevant, of any subsidiary or subcontractor, located inside or 
outside the Union, to be involved in the conformity assessment process.</p>
   <p class="norm">The on-site assessment of the applicant body shall be led by the authority responsible for notified bodies.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Findings regarding non-compliance of an
 applicant conformity assessment body with the requirements set out in 
Annex&nbsp;VII shall be raised during the assessment process and 
discussed between the authority responsible for notified bodies and the 
joint assessment team with a view to reaching consensus and resolving 
any diverging opinions, with respect to the assessment of the 
application.</p>
   <p class="norm">At the end of the on-site assessment, the authority 
responsible for notified bodies shall list for the applicant conformity 
assessment body the non-compliances resulting from the assessment and 
summarise the assessment by the joint assessment team.</p>
   <p class="norm">Within a specified timeframe, the applicant 
conformity assessment body shall submit to the national authority a 
corrective and preventive action plan to address the non-compliances.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The joint assessment team shall 
document any remaining diverging opinions with respect to the assessment
 within 30 days of completion of the on-site assessment and send them to
 the authority responsible for notified bodies.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall following receipt of a corrective and preventive action 
plan from the applicant body assess whether non-compliances identified 
during the assessment have been appropriately addressed. This plan shall
 indicate the root cause of the identified non-compliances and shall 
include a timeframe for implementation of the actions therein.</p>
   <p class="norm">The authority responsible for notified bodies shall 
having confirmed the corrective and preventive action plan forward it 
and its opinion thereon to the joint assessment team. The joint 
assessment team may request of the authority responsible for notified 
bodies further clarification and modifications.</p>
   <p class="norm">The authority responsible for notified bodies shall draw up its final assessment report which shall include:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the result of the assessment,</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">confirmation that the corrective and preventive actions have been appropriately addressed and, where required, implemented,</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">any remaining diverging opinion with the joint assessment team, and, where applicable,</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the recommended scope of designation.</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall submit its final assessment report and, if applicable, the 
draft designation to the Commission, the MDCG and the joint assessment 
team.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;The joint assessment team shall provide
 a final opinion regarding the assessment report prepared by the 
authority responsible for notified bodies and, if applicable, the draft 
designation within 21 days of receipt of those documents to the 
Commission, which shall immediately submit that final opinion to the 
MDCG. Within 42 days of receipt of the opinion of the joint assessment 
team, the MDCG shall issue a recommendation with regard to the draft 
designation, which the authority responsible for notified bodies shall 
duly take into consideration for its decision on the designation of the 
notified body.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission may, by means of 
implementing acts, adopt measures setting out the detailed arrangements 
specifying procedures and reports for the application for designation 
referred to in Article&nbsp;38 and the assessment of the application set
 out in this Article. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>