
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:language" content="en">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:version" content="current">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:docusaurus_tag" content="docs-default-current">
        ---
sidebar_position: 26
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Unique Device Identification system</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Unique Device Identification system
 (‘UDI system’) described in Part C of Annex&nbsp;VI shall allow the 
identification and facilitate the traceability of devices, other than 
custom-made and investigational devices, and shall consist of the 
following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">production of a UDI that comprises the following:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(i)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">a UDI device identifier (‘UDI-DI’) 
specific to a manufacturer and a device, providing access to the 
information laid down in Part B of Annex&nbsp;VI;</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(ii)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">a UDI production identifier (‘UDI-PI’) 
that identifies the unit of device production and if applicable the 
packaged devices, as specified in Part&nbsp;C of Annex&nbsp;VI;</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">placing of the UDI on the label of the device or on its packaging;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">storage of the UDI by economic operators, 
health institutions and healthcare professionals, in accordance with the
 conditions laid down in paragraphs 8 and 9 of this 
Article&nbsp;respectively;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">establishment of an electronic system for Unique Device Identification&nbsp;(‘UDI database’) in accordance with Article&nbsp;28.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall, by means of 
implementing acts, designate one or several entities to operate a system
 for assignment of UDIs pursuant to this Regulation (‘issuing entity’). 
That entity or those entities shall satisfy all of the following 
criteria:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the entity is an organisation with legal personality;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">its system for the assignment of UDIs is 
adequate to identify a device throughout its distribution and use in 
accordance with the requirements of this Regulation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">its system for the assignment of UDIs conforms to the relevant international standards;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the entity gives access to its system for the 
assignment of UDIs to all interested users in accordance with a set of 
predetermined and transparent terms and conditions;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the entity undertakes to do the following:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(i)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">operate its system for the assignment of UDIs for at least 10 years after its designation;</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(ii)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">make available to the Commission and to 
the Member&nbsp;States, upon request, information concerning its system 
for the assignment of UDIs;</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(iii)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">remain in compliance with the criteria for designation and the terms of designation.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">When designating issuing entities, the Commission 
shall endeavour to ensure that UDI&nbsp;carriers, as defined in Part C 
of Annex&nbsp;VI, are universally readable regardless of the system used
 by the issuing entity, with a view to minimising financial and 
administrative burdens for economic operators and health institutions.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Before placing a device, other than a 
custom-made device, on the market, the manufacturer shall assign to the 
device and, if applicable, to all higher levels of packaging, a UDI 
created in compliance with the rules of the issuing entity designated by
 the Commission in accordance with paragraph&nbsp;2.</p>
   <p class="norm">Before a device, other than a custom-made or 
investigational device, is placed on the market the manufacturer shall 
ensure that the information referred to in Part B of Annex&nbsp;VI of 
the device in question are correctly submitted and transferred to the 
UDI database referred to in Article&nbsp;28.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;UDI carriers shall be placed on the 
label of the device and on all higher levels of packaging. Higher levels
 of packaging shall not be understood to include shipping containers.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The UDI shall be used for reporting 
serious incidents and field safety corrective actions in accordance with
 Article&nbsp;87.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Basic UDI-DI, as defined in Part C 
of Annex&nbsp;VI, of the device shall appear on the EU&nbsp;declaration 
of conformity referred to in Article&nbsp;19.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;As part of the technical documentation 
referred to in Annex&nbsp;II, the manufacturer shall keep up-to-date a 
list of all UDIs that it has assigned.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;Economic operators shall store and 
keep, preferably by electronic means, the UDI of the devices which they 
have supplied or with which they have been supplied, if those devices 
belong to:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">class III implantable devices;</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the devices, categories or groups of devices determined by a measure referred to in point&nbsp;(a) of paragraph&nbsp;11.</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;Health institutions shall store and 
keep preferably by electronic means the UDI of the devices which they 
have supplied or with which they have been supplied, if those devices 
belong to class III implantable devices.</p>
   <p class="norm">For devices other than class III implantable devices,
 Member&nbsp;States shall encourage, and may require, health 
institutions to store and keep, preferably by electronic means, the UDI 
of the devices with which they have been supplied.</p>
   <p class="norm">Member&nbsp;States shall encourage, and may require, 
healthcare professionals to store and keep preferably by electronic 
means, the UDI of the devices with which they have been supplied with.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article&nbsp;115:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">amending the list of information set out in Part B of Annex&nbsp;VI in the light of technical progress; and</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">amending Annex&nbsp;VI in the light of 
international developments and technical progress in the field of Unique
 Device Identification.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission may, by means of 
implementing acts, specify the detailed arrangements and the procedural 
aspects for the UDI system with a view to ensuring its harmonised 
application in relation to any of the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">determining the devices, categories or groups of devices to which the obligation laid down in paragraph&nbsp;8 is to apply;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">specifying the data to be included in the UDI-PI of specific devices or device groups;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">The implementing acts referred to in the first 
subparagraph&nbsp;shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>
   <p class="norm">12.&nbsp;&nbsp;When adopting the measures referred to
 in paragraph&nbsp;11, the Commission shall take into account all of the
 following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">confidentiality and data protection as referred to in Articles&nbsp;109 and 110&nbsp;respectively;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the risk-based approach;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the cost-effectiveness of the measures;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the convergence of UDI systems developed at international level;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the need to avoid duplications in the UDI system;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the needs of the healthcare systems of the 
Member&nbsp;States, and where possible, compatibility with other medical
 device identification systems that are used by stakeholders.</p>
      </div>
   </div>