---
sidebar_position: 92
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Market surveillance activities</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The competent authorities shall perform
 appropriate checks on the conformity characteristics and performance of
 devices including, where appropriate, a review of documentation and 
physical or laboratory checks on the basis of adequate samples. The 
competent authorities shall, in particular, take account of established 
principles regarding risk assessment and risk management, vigilance data
 and complaints.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The competent authorities shall draw up
 annual surveillance activity plans and allocate a sufficient number of 
material and competent human resources in order to carry out those 
activities taking into account the European market surveillance 
programme developed by the MDCG pursuant to [Article&nbsp;105](../cooperation between memberstates  medical device coordination group expert laboratories expert panels  and device registersArticle 105 - Tasks of the MDCG.md) and local 
circumstances.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;In order to fulfil the obligations laid down in paragraph&nbsp;1, the competent authorities:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">may require economic operators to, <span class="italics">inter&nbsp;alia</span>,
 make available the documentation and information necessary for the 
purpose of carrying out the authorities' activities and, where 
justified, to provide the necessary samples of devices or access to 
devices free of charge; and</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">shall carry out both announced and, if 
necessary, unannounced inspections of the premises of economic 
operators, as well as suppliers and/or subcontractors, and, where 
necessary, at the facilities of professional users.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The competent authorities shall prepare
 an annual summary of the results of their surveillance activities and 
make it accessible to other competent authorities by means of the 
electronic system referred to in [[[Article&nbsp;100](../market surveillanceArticle 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance.md)](../market surveillanceArticle 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance.md)](../market surveillanceArticle 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance.md).</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The competent authorities may 
confiscate, destroy or otherwise render inoperable devices that present 
an unacceptable risk or falsified devices where they deem it necessary 
to do so in the interests of the protection of public health.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Following each inspection carried out 
for the purposes referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1, the competent 
authority shall draw up a report on the findings of the inspection that 
concern compliance with the legal and technical requirements applicable 
under this Regulation. The report shall set out any corrective actions 
needed.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;The competent authority which carried 
out the inspection shall communicate the content of the report referred 
to in paragraph&nbsp;6 of this Article&nbsp;to the economic operator 
that has been the subject of the inspection. Before adopting the final 
report, the competent authority shall give that economic operator the 
opportunity to submit comments. That final inspection report shall be 
entered in the electronic system provided for in [[[Article&nbsp;100](../market surveillanceArticle 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance.md)](../market surveillanceArticle 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance.md)](../market surveillanceArticle 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance.md).</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Member&nbsp;States shall review and
 assess the functioning of their market surveillance activities. Such 
reviews and assessments shall be carried out at least every four years 
and the results thereof shall be communicated to the other 
Member&nbsp;States and the Commission. Each Member&nbsp;State shall make
 a summary of the results accessible to the public by means of the 
electronic system referred to in [[[Article&nbsp;100](../market surveillanceArticle 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance.md)](../market surveillanceArticle 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance.md)](../market surveillanceArticle 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance.md).</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;The competent authorities of the 
Member&nbsp;States shall coordinate their market surveillance 
activities, cooperate with each other and share with each other and with
 the Commission the results thereof, to provide for a harmonised and 
high level of market surveillance in all Member&nbsp;States.</p>
   <p class="norm">Where appropriate, the competent authorities of the 
Member&nbsp;States shall agree on work-sharing, joint market 
surveillance activities and specialisation.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where more than one authority in a 
Member&nbsp;State is responsible for market surveillance and external 
border controls, those authorities shall cooperate with each other, by 
sharing information relevant to their role and functions.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where appropriate, the competent 
authorities of the Member&nbsp;States shall cooperate with the competent
 authorities of third countries with a view to exchanging information 
and technical support and promoting activities relating to market 
surveillance.</p>