---
sidebar_position: 94
---
        <h3>market surveillance</h3>
<h1>Procedure for dealing with devices presenting an unacceptable risk to health and safety</h1>
<h2>Article 95</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Procedure for dealing with devices presenting an unacceptable risk to health and safety</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where, having performed an evaluation 
pursuant to Article&nbsp;94, the competent authorities find that the 
device presents an unacceptable risk to the health or safety of 
patients, users or other persons, or to other aspects of the protection 
of public health, they shall without delay require the manufacturer of 
the devices concerned, its authorised representative and all other 
relevant economic operators to take all appropriate and duly justified 
corrective action to bring the device into compliance with the 
requirements of this Regulation relating to the risk presented by the 
device and, in a manner that is proportionate to the nature of the risk,
 to restrict the making available of the device on the market, to 
subject the making available of the device to specific requirements, to 
withdraw the device from the market, or to recall it, within a 
reasonable period that is clearly defined and communicated to the 
relevant economic operator.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The competent authorities shall, 
without delay, notify the Commission, the other Member&nbsp;States and, 
where a certificate has been issued in accordance with Article&nbsp;56 
for the device concerned, the notified body that issued that 
certificate, of the results of the evaluation and of the actions which 
they have required the economic operators to take, by means of the 
electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;100.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The economic operators as referred to 
in paragraph&nbsp;1 shall, without delay, ensure that all appropriate 
corrective action is taken throughout the Union in respect of all the 
devices concerned that they have made available on the market.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the economic operator as referred
 to in paragraph&nbsp;1 does not take adequate corrective action within 
the period referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1, the competent authorities 
shall take all appropriate measures to prohibit or restrict the making 
available of the device on their national market, to withdraw the device
 from that market or to recall it.</p>
   <p class="norm">The competent authorities shall notify the 
Commission, the other Member&nbsp;States and the notified body referred 
to in paragraph&nbsp;2 of this Article, without delay, of those 
measures, by means of the electronic system referred to in 
Article&nbsp;100.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The notification referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;4 shall include all available details, in particular the 
data necessary for the identification and tracing of the non-compliant 
device, the origin of the device, the nature of and the reasons for the 
non-compliance alleged and the risk involved, the nature and duration of
 the national measures taken and the arguments put forward by the 
relevant economic operator.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States other than the 
Member&nbsp;State initiating the procedure shall, without delay, inform 
the Commission and the other Member&nbsp;States, by means of the 
electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;100, of any additional 
relevant information at their disposal relating to the non-compliance of
 the device concerned and of any measures adopted by them in relation to
 the device concerned.</p>
   <p class="norm">In the event of disagreement with the notified 
national measure, they shall, without delay, inform the Commission and 
the other Member&nbsp;States of their objections, by means of the 
electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;100.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where, within two months of receipt of 
the notification referred to in paragraph&nbsp;4, no objection has been 
raised by either a Member&nbsp;State or the Commission in respect of any
 measures taken by a Member&nbsp;State, those measures shall be deemed 
to be justified.</p>
   <p class="norm">In that case, all Member&nbsp;States shall ensure 
that corresponding appropriate restrictive or prohibitive measures, 
including withdrawing, recalling or limiting the availability of the 
device on their national market, are taken without delay in respect of 
the device concerned.</p>