---
sidebar_position: 88
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Analysis of serious incidents and field safety corrective actions</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Following the reporting of a serious 
incident pursuant to Article&nbsp;87(1), the manufacturer shall, without
 delay, perform the necessary investigations in relation to the serious 
incident and the devices concerned. This shall include a risk assessment
 of the incident and field safety corrective action taking into account 
criteria as referred to in paragraph&nbsp;3 of this Article&nbsp;as 
appropriate.</p>
   <p class="norm">The manufacturer shall co-operate with the competent 
authorities and where relevant with the notified body concerned during 
the investigations referred to in the first subparagraph&nbsp;and shall 
not perform any investigation which involves altering the device or a 
sample of the batch concerned in a way which may affect any subsequent 
evaluation of the causes of the incident, prior to informing the 
competent authorities of such action.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States shall take the 
necessary steps to ensure that any information regarding a serious 
incident that has occurred within their territory, or a field safety 
corrective action that has been or is to be undertaken within their 
territory, and that is brought to their knowledge in accordance with 
Article&nbsp;87 is evaluated centrally at national level by their 
competent authority, if possible together with the manufacturer, and, 
where relevant, the notified body concerned.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;In the context of the evaluation 
referred to in paragraph&nbsp;2, the competent authority shall evaluate 
the risks arising from the reported serious incident and evaluate any 
related field safety corrective actions, taking into account the 
protection of public health and criteria such as causality, 
detectability and probability of recurrence of the problem, frequency of
 use of the device, probability of occurrence of direct or indirect 
harm, the severity of that harm, the clinical benefit of the device, 
intended and potential users, and population affected. The competent 
authority shall also evaluate the adequacy of the field safety 
corrective action envisaged or undertaken by the manufacturer and the 
need for, and kind of, any other corrective action, in particular taking
 into account the principle of inherent safety contained in 
Annex&nbsp;I.</p>
   <p class="norm">Upon request by the national competent authority, manufacturers shall provide all documents necessary for the risk assessment.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The competent authority shall monitor 
the manufacturer's investigation of a serious incident. Where necessary,
 a competent authority may intervene in a manufacturer's investigation 
or initiate an independent investigation.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The manufacturer shall provide a final 
report to the competent authority setting out its findings from the 
investigation by means of the electronic system referred to in 
Article&nbsp;92. The report shall set out conclusions and where relevant
 indicate corrective actions to be taken.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;In the case of devices referred to in 
the first subparagraph&nbsp;of Article&nbsp;1(8) and where the serious 
incident or field safety corrective action may be related to a substance
 which, if used separately, would be considered to be a medicinal 
product, the evaluating competent authority or the coordinating 
competent authority referred to in paragraph&nbsp;9 of this 
Article&nbsp;shall, inform the national competent authority or the EMA, 
depending on which issued the scientific opinion on that substance under
 Article&nbsp;52(9), of that serious incident or field safety corrective
 action.</p>
   <p class="norm">In the case of devices covered by this Regulation in 
accordance with point&nbsp;(g) of Article&nbsp;1(6) and where the 
serious incident or field safety corrective action may be related to the
 derivatives of tissues or cells of human origin utilised for&nbsp;the 
manufacture of the device, and in the case of devices falling under this
 Regulation pursuant to Article&nbsp;1(10), the&nbsp;competent authority
 or the coordinating competent authority referred to in paragraph&nbsp;9
 of this Article&nbsp;shall inform the competent authority for human 
tissues and cells that was consulted by the notified body in accordance 
with Article&nbsp;52(10).</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;After carrying out the evaluation in 
accordance with paragraph&nbsp;3 of this Article, the evaluating 
competent authority shall, through the electronic system referred to in 
Article&nbsp;92, inform, without delay, the other competent authorities 
of the corrective action taken or envisaged by the manufacturer or 
required of it to minimise the risk of recurrence of the serious 
incident, including information on the underlying events and the outcome
 of its assessment.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The manufacturer shall ensure that 
information about the field safety corrective action taken is brought 
without delay to the attention of users of the device in question by 
means of a field safety notice. The field safety notice shall be edited 
in an official Union language or languages determined by the 
Member&nbsp;State in which the field safety corrective action is taken. 
Except in cases of urgency, the content of the draft field safety notice
 shall be submitted to the evaluating competent authority or, in the 
cases referred to in paragraph&nbsp;9, to the coordinating competent 
authority to allow it to make comments. Unless duly justified by the 
situation of the individual Member&nbsp;State, the content of the field 
safety notice shall be consistent in all Member&nbsp;States.</p>
   <p class="norm">The field safety notice shall allow the correct 
identification of the device or devices involved, in particular by 
including the relevant UDIs, and the correct identification, in 
particular, by including the SRN, if already issued, of the manufacturer
 that has undertaken the field safety corrective action. The field 
safety notice shall explain, in a clear manner, without understating the
 level of risk, the reasons for the field safety corrective action with 
reference to the device malfunction and associated risks for patients, 
users or other persons, and shall clearly indicate all the actions to be
 taken by users.</p>
   <p class="norm">The manufacturer shall enter the field safety notice 
in the electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;92 through which 
that notice shall be accessible to the public.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;The competent authorities shall 
actively participate in a procedure in order to coordinate their 
assessments referred to in paragraph&nbsp;3 in the following cases:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">where there is concern regarding a particular 
serious incident or cluster of serious incidents relating to the same 
device or type of device of the same manufacturer in more than one 
Member&nbsp;State;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">where the appropriateness of a field safety 
corrective action that is proposed by a manufacturer in more than one 
Member&nbsp;State is in question.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">That coordinated procedure shall cover the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">designation of a coordinating competent authority on a case by case basis, when required;</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">defining the coordinated assessment process, 
including the tasks and responsibilities of the coordinating competent 
authority and the involvement of other competent authorities.</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">Unless otherwise agreed between the competent 
authorities, the coordinating competent authority shall be the competent
 authority of the Member&nbsp;State in which the manufacturer has its 
registered place of business.</p>
   <p class="norm">The coordinating competent authority shall, through 
the electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;92, inform the 
manufacturer, the other competent authorities and the Commission that it
 has assumed the role of coordinating authority.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;The designation of a coordinating 
competent authority shall not affect the rights of the other competent 
authorities to perform their own assessment and to adopt measures in 
accordance with this Regulation in order to ensure the protection of 
public health and patient safety. The coordinating competent authority 
and the Commission shall be kept informed of the outcome of any such 
assessment and the adoption of any such measures.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall provide 
administrative support to the coordinating competent authority in the 
accomplishment of its tasks under this Chapter.</p>