---
sidebar_position: 90
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Implementing acts</p>
   <p class="norm">The Commission may, by means of implementing acts, 
and after consultation of the MDCG, adopt the detailed arrangements and 
procedural aspects necessary for the implementation of Articles&nbsp;85 
to&nbsp;90 and 92 as regards the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the typology of serious incidents and field 
safety corrective actions in relation to specific devices, or categories
 or groups of devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the reporting of serious incidents and field 
safety corrective actions and field safety notices, and the provision of
 periodic summary reports, post-market surveillance reports, PSURs and 
trend reports by manufacturers as referred to in Articles&nbsp;85, 86, 
87, 88 and 89 respectively;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">standard structured forms for electronic and 
non-electronic reporting, including a minimum data set for reporting of 
suspected serious incidents by healthcare professionals, users and 
patients;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">timelines for the reporting of field safety 
corrective actions, and for the provision by manufacturers of periodic 
summary reports and trend reports, taking into account the severity of 
the incident to be reported as referred to in Article&nbsp;87;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">harmonised forms for the exchange of information between competent authorities as referred to in Article&nbsp;89;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">procedures for the designation of a 
coordinating competent authority; the coordinated evaluation process, 
including tasks and responsibilities of the coordinating competent 
authority and involvement of other competent authorities in this 
process.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">The implementing acts referred to in the first 
paragraph&nbsp;shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>