
---
sidebar_position: 86
---
        <h3>vigilance</h3>
<h1>Reporting-of-serious-incidents-and-field-safety-corrective-actions</h1>
<h2>Article 87</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Reporting of serious incidents and field safety corrective actions</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of devices made available
 on the Union market, other than investigational devices, shall report, 
to the relevant competent authorities, in accordance with 
Articles&nbsp;92(5) and (7), the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">any serious incident involving devices made 
available on the Union market, except expected side-effects which are 
clearly documented in the product information and quantified in the 
technical documentation and are subject to trend reporting pursuant to 
Article&nbsp;88;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">any field safety corrective action in respect 
of devices made available on the Union market, including any field 
safety corrective action undertaken in a third country in relation to a 
device which is also legally made available on the Union market, if the 
reason for the field safety corrective action is not limited to the 
device made available in the third country.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">The reports referred to in the first 
subparagraph&nbsp;shall be submitted through the electronic system 
referred to in Article&nbsp;92.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;As a general rule, the period for the 
reporting referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 shall take account of the 
severity of the serious incident.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall report any serious 
incident as referred to in point&nbsp;(a) of paragraph&nbsp;1 
immediately after they have established the causal relationship between 
that incident and their device or that such causal relationship is 
reasonably possible and not later than 15&nbsp;days after they become 
aware of the incident.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Notwithstanding paragraph&nbsp;3, in 
the event of a serious public health threat the report referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;1 shall be provided immediately, and not later than 2 
days after the manufacturer becomes aware of that threat.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Notwithstanding paragraph&nbsp;3, in 
the event of death or an unanticipated serious deterioration in a 
person's state of health the report shall be provided immediately after 
the manufacturer has established or as soon as it suspects a causal 
relationship between the device and the serious incident but not later 
than 10 days after the date on which the manufacturer becomes aware of 
the serious incident.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where necessary to ensure timely 
reporting, the manufacturer may submit an initial report that is 
incomplete followed up by a complete report.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;If, after becoming aware of a 
potentially reportable incident, the manufacturer is uncertain about 
whether the incident is reportable, it shall nevertheless submit a 
report within the timeframe required in accordance with 
paragraphs&nbsp;2 to 5.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;Except in cases of urgency in which the
 manufacturer needs to undertake field safety corrective action 
immediately, the manufacturer shall, without undue delay, report the 
field safety corrective action referred to in point&nbsp;(b) of 
paragraph&nbsp;1 in advance of the field safety corrective action being 
undertaken.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;For similar serious incidents that 
occur with the same device or device type and for which the root cause 
has been identified or a field safety corrective action implemented or 
where the incidents are common and well documented, the manufacturer may
 provide periodic summary reports instead of individual serious incident
 reports, on condition that the coordinating competent authority 
referred to in Article&nbsp;89(9), in consultation with the competent 
authorities referred to in point&nbsp;(a) of Article&nbsp;92(8), has 
agreed with the manufacturer on the format, content and frequency of the
 periodic summary reporting. Where a single competent authority is 
referred to in points (a) and (b) of Article&nbsp;92(8), the 
manufacturer may provide periodic summary reports following agreement 
with that competent authority.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Member&nbsp;States shall take 
appropriate measures such as organising targeted information campaigns, 
to encourage and enable healthcare professionals, users and patients to 
report to the competent authorities suspected serious incidents referred
 to in point&nbsp;(a) of paragraph&nbsp;1.</p>
   <p class="norm">The competent authorities shall record centrally at 
national level reports they receive from healthcare professionals, users
 and patients.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where a competent authority of a 
Member&nbsp;State obtains such reports on suspected serious incidents 
referred to in point&nbsp;(a) of paragraph&nbsp;1 from healthcare 
professionals, users or patients, it shall take the necessary steps to 
ensure that the manufacturer of the device concerned is informed of the 
suspected serious incident without delay.</p>
   <p class="norm">Where the manufacturer of the device concerned 
considers that the incident is a serious incident, it shall provide a 
report in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 5 of this Article&nbsp;on that
 serious incident to the competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State in
 which that serious incident occurred and shall take the appropriate 
follow-up action in accordance with Article&nbsp;89.</p>
   <p class="norm">Where the manufacturer of the device concerned 
considers that the incident is not a serious incident or is an expected 
undesirable side-effect, which will be covered by trend reporting in 
accordance with Article&nbsp;88, it shall provide an explanatory 
statement. If the competent authority does not agree with the conclusion
 of the explanatory statement, it may require the manufacturer to 
provide a report in accordance with paragraphs 1 to 5 of this 
Article&nbsp;and require it to ensure that appropriate follow-up action 
is taken in accordance with Article&nbsp;89.</p>