---
sidebar_position: 91
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Electronic system on vigilance and on post-market surveillance</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall, in collaboration 
with the Member&nbsp;States, set up and manage an electronic system to 
collate and process the following information:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the reports by manufacturers on serious 
incidents and field safety corrective actions referred to in 
Article&nbsp;87(1) and Article&nbsp;89(5);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the periodic summary reports by manufacturers referred to in Article&nbsp;87(9);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the reports by manufacturers on trends referred to in Article&nbsp;88;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the PSURs referred to in Article&nbsp;86;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the field safety notices by manufacturers referred to in Article&nbsp;89(8);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the information to be exchanged between the 
competent authorities of the Member&nbsp;States and between them and the
 Commission in accordance with Article&nbsp;89(7) and&nbsp;(9).</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">That electronic system shall include relevant links to the UDI database.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The information referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article&nbsp;shall be made available through 
the electronic system to the competent authorities of the 
Member&nbsp;States and to the Commission. The notified bodies shall also
 have access to that information to the extent that it relates to 
devices for which they issued a certificate in accordance with 
Article&nbsp;53.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall ensure that 
healthcare professionals and the public have appropriate levels of 
access to the electronic system referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;On the basis of arrangements between 
the Commission and competent authorities of third countries or 
international organisations, the Commission may grant those competent 
authorities or international organisations access to the electronic 
system referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 at the appropriate level. Those 
arrangements shall be based on reciprocity and make provision for 
confidentiality and data protection equivalent to those applicable in 
the Union.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The reports on serious incidents 
referred to in point&nbsp;(a) of Article&nbsp;87(1) shall be 
automatically transmitted, upon receipt, via the electronic system 
referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article, to the competent 
authority of the Member&nbsp;State in which the incident occurred.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The trend reports referred to in 
Article&nbsp;88(1) shall be automatically transmitted upon receipt via 
the electronic system referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 of this 
Article&nbsp;to the competent authorities of the Member&nbsp;State in 
which the incidents occurred.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;The reports on field safety corrective 
actions referred to in point&nbsp;(b) of Article&nbsp;87(1) shall be 
automatically transmitted upon receipt via the electronic system 
referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article&nbsp;to the competent 
authorities of the following Member&nbsp;States:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the Member&nbsp;States in which the field safety corrective action is being or is to be undertaken;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the Member&nbsp;State in which the manufacturer has its registered place of business.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The periodic summary reports referred 
to in Article&nbsp;87(9) shall be automatically transmitted upon receipt
 via the electronic system referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 of this 
Article&nbsp;to the competent authority of:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the Member&nbsp;State or Member&nbsp;States 
participating in the coordination procedure in accordance with 
Article&nbsp;89(9) and which have agreed on the periodic summary report;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the Member&nbsp;State in which the manufacturer has its registered place of business.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;The information referred to in 
paragraphs 5 to 8 of this Article&nbsp;shall be automatically 
transmitted, upon receipt, through the electronic system referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article, to the notified body that issued the 
certificate for the device in question in accordance with 
Article&nbsp;56.</p>
   <p>
      
      
   </p>
   