---
sidebar_position: 32
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">European database on medical devices</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission, after consulting the 
MDCG, shall set up, maintain and manage the European database on medical
 devices (‘Eudamed’) for the following purposes:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to enable the public to be adequately informed 
about devices placed on the market, the corresponding certificates 
issued by notified bodies and about the relevant economic operators;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to enable unique identification of devices within the internal market and to facilitate their traceability;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to enable the public to be adequately informed 
about clinical investigations and to enable sponsors of clinical 
investigations to comply with obligations under Articles&nbsp;62 to 80, 
<a href='../CHAPTER VI/Article 82 - Requirements regarding other clinical investigations'> Article 82</a>, and any acts adopted pursuant to <a href='../CHAPTER VI/Article 81 - Implementing acts'> Article 81</a>;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to enable manufacturers to comply with the 
information obligations laid down in Articles&nbsp;87 to 90 or in any 
acts adopted pursuant to <a href='../CHAPTER VII/Article 91 - Implementing acts'> Article 91</a>;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to enable the competent authorities of the 
Member&nbsp;States and the Commission to carry out their tasks relating 
to this Regulation on a well-informed basis and to enhance the 
cooperation between them.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Eudamed shall include the following electronic systems:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the electronic system for registration of devices referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER III/Article 29 - Registration of devices'> Article 29</a>(4);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the UDI-database referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER III/Article 28 - UDI database'> Article 28</a>;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the electronic system on registration of economic operators referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER III/Article 30 - Electronic system for registration of economic operators'> Article 30</a>;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER V/Article 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity'> Article 57</a>;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the electronic system on clinical investigations referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER VI/Article 73 - Electronic system on clinical investigations'> Article 73</a>;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the electronic system on vigilance and post-market surveillance referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER VII/Article 92 - Electronic system on vigilance and on postmarket surveillance'> Article 92</a>;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the electronic system on market surveillance referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER VII/Article 100 - Electronic system on market surveillance'> Article 100</a>.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;When designing Eudamed the Commission 
shall give due consideration to compatibility with national databases 
and national web-interfaces to allow for import and export of data.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The data shall be entered into Eudamed 
by the Member&nbsp;States, notified bodies, economic operators and 
sponsors as specified in the provisions on the electronic systems 
referred to in paragraph&nbsp;2. The Commission shall provide for 
technical and administrative support to users of Eudamed.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;All the information collated and 
processed by Eudamed shall be accessible to the Member&nbsp;States and 
to the Commission. The information shall be accessible to notified 
bodies, economic operators, sponsors and the public to the extent 
specified in the provisions on the electronic systems referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;2.</p>
   <p class="norm">The Commission shall ensure that public parts of Eudamed are presented in a user-friendly and easily-searchable format.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Eudamed shall contain personal data 
only insofar as necessary for the electronic systems referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;2 of this Article&nbsp;to collate and process information
 in accordance with this Regulation. Personal data shall be kept in a 
form which permits identification of data subjects for periods no longer
 than those referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER II/Article 10 - General obligations of manufacturers'> Article 10</a>(8).</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission and the 
Member&nbsp;States shall ensure that data subjects may effectively 
exercise their rights to information, of access, to rectification and to
 object in accordance with Regulation&nbsp;(EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;45/2001 and
 Directive&nbsp;95/46/EC, respectively. They shall also ensure that data
 subjects may effectively exercise the right of access to data relating 
to them, and the right to have inaccurate or incomplete data corrected 
and erased. Within their respective responsibilities, the Commission and
 the Member&nbsp;States shall ensure that inaccurate and unlawfully 
processed data are deleted, in accordance with the applicable 
legislation. Corrections and deletions shall be carried out as soon as 
possible, but no later than 60&nbsp;days after a request is made by a 
data subject.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall, by means of 
implementing acts, lay down the detailed arrangements necessary for the 
setting up and maintenance of Eudamed. Those implementing acts shall be 
adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
<a href='../CHAPTER X/Article 114 - Committee procedure'> Article 114</a>(3). When adopting those implementing acts, the 
Commission shall ensure that, as far as possible, the system is 
developed in such a way as to avoid having to enter the same information
 twice within the same module or in different modules of the system.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;In relation to its responsibilities 
under this Article&nbsp;and the processing of personal data involved 
therein, the Commission shall be considered to be the controller of 
Eudamed and its electronic systems.</p>