---
sidebar_position: 58
---
        <h3>conformity assessment</h3>
<h1>Derogation from the conformity assessment procedures</h1>
<h2>Article 59</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Derogation from the conformity assessment procedures</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;By way of derogation from 
Article&nbsp;52, any competent authority may authorise, on a duly 
justified request, the placing on the market or putting into service 
within the territory of the Member&nbsp;State concerned, of a specific 
device for which the procedures referred to in that Article&nbsp;have 
not been carried out but use of which is in the interest of public 
health or patient safety or health.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Member&nbsp;State shall inform the 
Commission and the other Member&nbsp;States of any decision to authorise
 the placing on the market or putting into service of a device in 
accordance with paragraph&nbsp;1 where such authorisation is granted for
 use other than for a single patient.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Following a notification pursuant to 
paragraph&nbsp;2 of this Article, the Commission, in exceptional cases 
relating to public health or patient safety or health, may, by means of 
implementing acts, extend for a limited period of time the validity of 
an authorisation granted by a Member&nbsp;State in accordance with 
paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article&nbsp;to the territory of the Union and 
set the conditions under which the device may be placed on the market or
 put into service. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>
   <p class="norm">On duly justified imperative grounds of urgency 
relating to the health and safety of humans, the Commission shall adopt 
immediately applicable implementing acts in accordance with the 
procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(4).</p>