---
sidebar_position: 114
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Exercise of the delegation</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The power to adopt delegated acts is 
conferred on the Commission subject to the conditions laid down in this 
Article.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The power to adopt delegated acts 
referred to in Articles&nbsp;1(5), 3, 10(4), 18(3), 19(4), 27(10), 
44(11), 52(5), 56(6), 61(8), 70(8) and 106(15) shall be conferred on the
 Commission for a period of five years from 25 May 2017. The Commission 
shall draw up a report in respect of the delegation of power not later 
than nine months before the end of the five-year period. The delegation 
of power shall be tacitly extended for periods of an identical duration,
 unless the European Parliament or the Council opposes such extension 
not later than three months before the end of each period.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The delegation of power referred to in 
Articles&nbsp;1(5), 3, 10(4), 18(3), 19(4), 27(10), 44(11), 52(5), 
56(6), 61(8), 70(8) and 106(15) may be revoked at any time by the 
European Parliament or by the Council. A decision to revoke shall put an
 end to the delegation of the power specified in that decision. It shall
 take effect the day following the publication of the decision in the <span class="italics">Official Journal of the European Union</span> or at a later date specified therein. It shall not affect the validity of any delegated acts already in force.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Before adopting a delegated act, the 
Commission shall consult experts designated by each Member&nbsp;State in
 accordance with the principles laid down in the Interinstitutional 
Agreement of 13 April 2016 on Better Law-Making.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;As soon as it adopts a delegated act, 
the Commission shall notify it simultaneously to the European Parliament
 and to the Council.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;A delegated act adopted pursuant to 
Articles&nbsp;1(5), 3, 10(4), 18(3), 19(4), 27(10), 44(11), 52(5), 
56(6), 61(8), 70(8) and 106(15) shall enter into force only if no 
objection has been expressed either by the European Parliament or by the
 Council within a period of three months of notification of that act to 
the European Parliament and the Council or if, before the expiry of that
 period, the European Parliament and the Council have both informed the 
Commission that they will not object. That period shall be extended by 
three months at the initiative of the European Parliament or of the 
Council.</p>