
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:language" content="en">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:version" content="current">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:docusaurus_tag" content="docs-default-current">
        ---
sidebar_position: 46
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Challenge to the competence of notified bodies</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission, in conjunction with the
 MDCG, shall investigate all cases where concerns have been brought to 
its attention regarding the continued fulfilment by a notified body, or 
of one or more of its subsidiaries or subcontractors, of the 
requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;VII or the obligations to which they 
are subject. It shall ensure that the relevant authority responsible for
 notified bodies is informed and is given an opportunity to investigate 
those concerns.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The notifying Member&nbsp;State shall 
provide the Commission, on request, with all information regarding the 
designation of the notified body concerned.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission, in conjunction with the
 MDCG, may initiate, as applicable, the assessment procedure described 
in Article&nbsp;39(3) and (4), where there is reasonable concern about 
the ongoing compliance of a notified body or a subsidiary or 
subcontractor of the notified body with the requirements set out in 
Annex&nbsp;VII and where the investigation by the authority responsible 
for notified bodies is not deemed to have fully addressed the concerns 
or upon request of the authority responsible for notified bodies. The 
reporting and outcome of that assessment shall follow the principles of 
Article&nbsp;39. Alternatively, depending on the severity of the issue, 
the Commission, in conjunction with the MDCG, may request that the 
authority responsible for notified bodies allow the participation of up 
to two experts from the list established pursuant to Article&nbsp;40 in 
an on-site assessment as part of the planned monitoring and assessment 
activities in accordance with Article&nbsp;44 and as outlined in the 
annual assessment plan described in Article&nbsp;44(4).</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the Commission ascertains that a 
notified body no longer meets the requirements for its designation, it 
shall inform the notifying Member&nbsp;State accordingly and request it 
to take the necessary corrective measures, including the suspension, 
restriction or withdrawal of the designation if necessary.</p>
   <p class="norm">Where the Member&nbsp;State fails to take the 
necessary corrective measures, the Commission may, by means of 
implementing acts, suspend, restrict or withdraw the designation. Those 
implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(3). It shall notify the 
Member&nbsp;State concerned of its decision and update NANDO and the 
electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;57.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall ensure that all 
confidential information obtained in the course of its investigations is
 treated accordingly.</p>