---
sidebar_position: 44
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Review of notified body assessment of technical documentation and clinical evaluation documentation</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies, as part of its ongoing monitoring of notified bodies, shall 
review an appropriate number of notified body assessments of 
manufacturers' technical documentation, in particular the clinical 
evaluation documentation as referred to in points (c) and (d) of 
Section&nbsp;6.1 of Annex&nbsp;II to verify the conclusions drawn by the
 notified body based on the information presented by the manufacturer. 
The reviews by the authority responsible for notified bodies shall be 
conducted both off-site and on-site.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The sampling of files to be reviewed in
 accordance with paragraph&nbsp;1 shall be planned and representative of
 the types and risk of devices certified by the notified body, in 
particular high-risk devices, and be appropriately justified and 
documented in a sampling plan, which shall be made available by the 
authority responsible for notified bodies to the MDCG upon request.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall review whether the assessment by the notified body was 
conducted appropriately and shall check the procedures used, associated 
documentation and the conclusions drawn by the notified body. Such 
checking shall include the technical documentation and clinical 
evaluation documentation of the manufacturer upon which the notified 
body has based its assessment. Such reviews shall be conducted utilising
 CS.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Those reviews shall also form part of 
the re-assessment of notified bodies in accordance with 
[Article&nbsp;44](../notified bodiesArticle 44 - Monitoring and reassessment of notified bodies.md)(10) and the joint assessment activities referred to in 
[Article&nbsp;47](../notified bodiesArticle 47 - Challenge to the competence of notified bodies.md)(3). The reviews shall be conducted utilising appropriate
 expertise.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Based on the reports of the reviews and
 assessments by the authority responsible for notified bodies or joint 
assessment teams, on input from the market surveillance, vigilance and 
post-market surveillance activities described in Chapter&nbsp;VII, on 
the continuous monitoring of technical progress, or on the 
identification of concerns and emerging issues concerning the safety and
 performance of devices, the MDCG may recommend that the sampling, 
carried out under this Article, cover a greater or lesser proportion of 
the technical documentation and clinical evaluation documentation 
assessed by a notified body.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission may, by means of 
implementing acts, adopt measures setting out the detailed arrangements,
 associated documents for, and coordination of, the review of 
assessments of technical documentation and clinical evaluation 
documentation, as referred to in this Article. Those implementing acts 
shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred 
to in [Article&nbsp;114](../final provisionsArticle 114 - Committee procedure.md)(3).</p>