---
sidebar_position: 45
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Changes to designations and notifications</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall notify the Commission and the other Member&nbsp;States of 
any relevant changes to the designation of a notified body.</p>
   <p class="norm">The procedures described in [Article&nbsp;39](../notified bodiesArticle 39 - Assessment of the application.md) and in [Article&nbsp;42](../notified bodiesArticle 42 - Designation and notification procedure.md) shall apply to extensions of the scope of the designation.</p>
   <p class="norm">For changes to the designation other than extensions 
of its scope, the procedures laid down in the following paragraphs shall
 apply.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall immediately 
publish the amended notification in NANDO. The Commission shall 
immediately enter information on the changes to the designation of the 
notified body in the electronic system referred to in [[[Article&nbsp;57](../conformity assessmentArticle 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity.md)](../conformity assessmentArticle 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity.md)](../conformity assessmentArticle 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity.md).</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where a notified body decides to cease 
its conformity assessment activities it shall inform the authority 
responsible for notified bodies and the manufacturers concerned as soon 
as possible and in the case of a planned cessation one year before 
ceasing its activities. The certificates may remain valid for a 
temporary period of nine months after cessation of the notified body's 
activities on condition that another notified body has confirmed in 
writing that it will assume responsibilities for the devices covered by 
those certificates. The new notified body shall complete a full 
assessment of the devices affected by the end of that period before 
issuing new certificates for those devices. Where the notified body has 
ceased its activity, the authority responsible for notified bodies shall
 withdraw the designation.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where a authority responsible for 
notified bodies has ascertained that a notified body no longer meets the
 requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;VII, or that it is failing to fulfil
 its obligations or has not implemented the necessary corrective 
measures, the authority shall suspend, restrict, or fully or partially 
withdraw the designation, depending on the seriousness of the failure to
 meet those requirements or fulfil those obligations. A&nbsp;suspension 
shall not exceed a period of one year, renewable once for the same 
period.</p>
   <p class="norm">The authority responsible for notified bodies shall 
immediately inform the Commission and the other Member&nbsp;States of 
any suspension, restriction or withdrawal of a designation.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where its designation has been 
suspended, restricted, or fully or partially withdrawn, the notified 
body shall inform the manufacturers concerned at the latest within 10 
days.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;In the event of restriction, suspension
 or withdrawal of a designation, the authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall take appropriate steps to ensure that the files of the 
notified body concerned are kept and make them available to authorities 
in other Member&nbsp;States responsible for notified bodies and to 
authorities responsible for market surveillance at their request.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;In the event of restriction, suspension
 or withdrawal of a designation, the authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">assess the impact on the certificates issued by the notified body;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">submit a report on its findings to the 
Commission and the other Member&nbsp;States within three months of 
having notified the changes to the designation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">require the notified body to suspend or 
withdraw, within a reasonable period of time determined by the 
authority, any certificates which were unduly issued to ensure the 
safety of devices on the market;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">enter into the electronic system referred to in
 [[[Article&nbsp;57](../conformity assessmentArticle 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity.md)](../conformity assessmentArticle 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity.md)](../conformity assessmentArticle 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity.md) information in relation to certificates of which it has
 required their suspension or withdrawal;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">inform the competent authority for medical 
devices of the Member&nbsp;State in which the manufacturer has its 
registered place of business through the electronic system referred to 
in [[[Article&nbsp;57](../conformity assessmentArticle 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity.md)](../conformity assessmentArticle 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity.md)](../conformity assessmentArticle 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity.md) of the certificates for which it has required 
suspension or withdrawal. That competent authority shall take the 
appropriate measures, where necessary to avoid a potential risk to the 
health or safety of patients, users or others.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;With the exception of certificates 
unduly issued, and where a designation has been suspended or restricted,
 the certificates shall remain valid in the following circumstances:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the authority responsible for notified bodies 
has confirmed, within one month of the suspension or restriction, that 
there is no safety issue in relation to certificates affected by the 
suspension or restriction, and the authority responsible for notified 
bodies has outlined a timeline and actions anticipated to remedy the 
suspension or restriction; or</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the authority responsible for notified bodies 
has confirmed that no certificates relevant to the suspension will be 
issued, amended or re-issued during the course of the suspension or 
restriction, and states whether the notified body has the capability of 
continuing to monitor and remain responsible for existing certificates 
issued for the period of the suspension or restriction. In the event 
that the authority responsible for notified bodies determines that the 
notified body does not have the capability to support existing 
certificates issued, the manufacturer shall provide, to the competent 
authority for medical devices of the Member&nbsp;State in which the 
manufacturer of the device covered by the certificate has its registered
 place of business, within three months of the suspension or 
restriction, a written confirmation that another qualified notified body
 is temporarily assuming the functions of the notified body to monitor 
and remain responsible for the certificates during the period of 
suspension or restriction.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;With the exception of certificates 
unduly issued, and where a designation has been withdrawn, the 
certificates shall remain valid for a period of nine months in the 
following circumstances:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">where the competent authority for medical 
devices of the Member&nbsp;State in which the manufacturer of the device
 covered by the certificate has its registered place of business has 
confirmed that there is no safety issue associated with the devices in 
question; and</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">another notified body has confirmed in writing 
that it will assume immediate responsibilities for those devices and 
will have completed assessment of them within twelve months of the 
withdrawal of the designation.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">In the circumstances referred to in the first 
subparagraph, the competent authority for medical devices of the 
Member&nbsp;State in which the manufacturer of the device covered by the
 certificate has its place of business may extend the provisional 
validity of the certificates for further periods of three months, which 
altogether shall not exceed twelve&nbsp;months.</p>
   <p class="norm">The authority or the notified body assuming the 
functions of the notified body affected by the change of designation 
shall immediately inform the Commission, the other Member&nbsp;States 
and the other notified bodies thereof.</p>