---
sidebar_position: 47
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Peer review and exchange of experience between authorities responsible for notified bodies</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall provide for the 
organisation of exchange of experience and coordination of 
administrative practice between the authorities responsible for notified
 bodies. Such exchange shall cover elements including:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">development of best practice documents relating to the activities of the authorities responsible for notified bodies;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">development of guidance documents for notified bodies in relation to the implementation of this Regulation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">training and qualification of the experts referred to in [Article&nbsp;40](../notified bodiesArticle 40 - Nomination of experts for joint assessment of applications for notification.md);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">monitoring of trends relating to changes to 
notified body designations and notifications and trends in certificate 
withdrawals and transfers between notified bodies;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">monitoring of the application and applicability of scope codes referred to in [Article&nbsp;42](../notified bodiesArticle 42 - Designation and notification procedure.md)(13);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">development of a mechanism for peer reviews between authorities and the Commission;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">methods of communication to the public on the 
monitoring and surveillance activities of authorities and the Commission
 on notified bodies.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authorities responsible for 
notified bodies shall participate in a peer review every third year 
through the mechanism developed pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;1 of 
this&nbsp;Article. Such reviews shall normally be conducted in parallel 
with the on-site joint assessments described in [Article&nbsp;39](../notified bodiesArticle 39 - Assessment of the application.md). 
Alternatively, an authority may make the choice of having such reviews 
take place as part of its monitoring activities referred to in 
[Article&nbsp;44](../notified bodiesArticle 44 - Monitoring and reassessment of notified bodies.md).</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall participate in the
 organisation and provide support to the implementation of the peer 
review mechanism.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall compile an annual 
summary report of the peer review activities, which shall be made 
publicly available.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission may, by means of 
implementing acts, adopt measures setting out the detailed arrangements 
and related documents for the peer review mechanism and training and 
qualification as referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article. Those 
implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in [Article&nbsp;114](../final provisionsArticle 114 - Committee procedure.md)(3).</p>