
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:language" content="en">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:version" content="current">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:docusaurus_tag" content="docs-default-current">
        ---
sidebar_position: 34
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Authorities responsible for notified bodies</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any Member&nbsp;State that intends to 
designate a conformity assessment body as a notified body, or has 
designated a notified body, to carry out conformity assessment 
activities under this Regulation shall appoint an authority (‘authority 
responsible for notified bodies’), which may consist of separate 
constituent entities under national law and shall be responsible for 
setting up and carrying out the necessary procedures for the assessment,
 designation and notification of conformity assessment bodies and for 
the monitoring of notified bodies, including subcontractors and 
subsidiaries of those bodies.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall be established, organised and operated so as to safeguard 
the objectivity and impartiality of its activities and to avoid any 
conflicts of interests with conformity assessment bodies.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall be organised in a manner such that each decision relating 
to designation or notification is taken by personnel different from 
those who carried out the assessment.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall not perform any activities that notified bodies perform on a
 commercial or competitive basis.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall safeguard the confidential aspects of the information it 
obtains. However, it shall exchange information on notified bodies with 
other Member&nbsp;States, the Commission and, when required, with other 
regulatory authorities.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall have a sufficient number of competent personnel permanently
 available for the proper performance of its tasks.</p>
   <p class="norm">Where the authority responsible for notified bodies 
is a different authority from the national competent authority for 
medical devices, it shall ensure that the national authority responsible
 for medical devices is consulted on relevant matters.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States shall make publicly 
available general information on their measures governing the 
assessment, designation and notification of conformity assessment bodies
 and for the monitoring of notified bodies, and on changes which have a 
significant impact on such tasks.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall participate in the peer-review activities provided for in 
Article&nbsp;48.</p>