---
sidebar_position: 41
---
        <h3>notified bodies</h3>
<h1>Designation and notification procedure</h1>
<h2>Article 42</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Designation and notification procedure</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States may only designate 
conformity assessment bodies for which the assessment pursuant to 
Article&nbsp;39 was completed and which comply with Annex&nbsp;VII.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States shall notify the 
Commission and the other Member&nbsp;States of the conformity assessment
 bodies they have designated, using the electronic notification tool 
within the database of notified bodies developed and managed by the 
Commission&nbsp;(NANDO).</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The notification shall clearly specify,
 using the codes referred to in paragraph&nbsp;13 of this Article, the 
scope of the designation indicating the conformity assessment activities
 as defined in this Regulation and the types of devices which the 
notified body is authorised to assess and, without prejudice to 
Article&nbsp;44, any conditions associated with the designation.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The notification shall be accompanied 
by the final assessment report of the authority responsible for notified
 bodies, the final opinion of the joint assessment team referred to in 
Article&nbsp;39(9) and the recommendation of the MDCG. Where the 
notifying Member&nbsp;State does not follow the recommendation of the 
MDCG, it shall provide a duly substantiated justification.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The notifying Member&nbsp;State shall, 
without prejudice to Article&nbsp;44, inform the Commission and the 
other Member&nbsp;States of any conditions associated with the 
designation and provide documentary evidence regarding the arrangements 
in place to ensure that the notified body will be monitored regularly 
and will continue to satisfy the requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;VII.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Within 28 days of the notification 
referred to in paragraph&nbsp;2, a Member&nbsp;State or the Commission 
may raise written objections, setting out its arguments, with regard 
either to the notified body or to its monitoring by the authority 
responsible for notified bodies. Where no objection is raised, the 
Commission shall publish in NANDO the notification within 42 days of its
 having been notified as referred to in paragraph&nbsp;2.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;When a Member&nbsp;State or the 
Commission raises objections in accordance with paragraph&nbsp;6, the 
Commission shall bring the matter before the MDCG within 10 days of the 
expiry of the period referred to in paragraph&nbsp;6. After consulting 
the parties involved, the MDCG shall give its opinion at the latest 
within 40 days of the matter having been brought before it. Where the 
MDCG is of the opinion that the notification can be accepted, the 
Commission shall publish in NANDO the notification within 14 days.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the MDCG, after having been 
consulted in accordance with paragraph&nbsp;7, confirms the existing 
objection or raises another objection, the notifying Member&nbsp;State 
shall provide a written response to the MDCG opinion within 40&nbsp;days
 of its receipt. The response shall address the objections raised in the
 opinion, and set out the reasons for the notifying Member&nbsp;State's 
decision to designate or not designate the conformity assessment body.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the notifying Member&nbsp;State 
decides to uphold its decision to designate the conformity assessment 
body, having given its reasons in accordance with paragraph&nbsp;8, the 
Commission shall publish in NANDO the notification within 14 days of 
being informed thereof.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;When publishing the notification in 
NANDO, the Commission shall also add to the electronic system referred 
to in Article&nbsp;57 the information relating to the notification of 
the notified body along with the documents mentioned in paragraph&nbsp;4
 of this Article&nbsp;and the opinion and responses referred to in 
paragraphs 7 and 8 of this Article.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;The designation shall become valid the
 day after the notification is published in NANDO. The published 
notification shall state the scope of lawful conformity assessment 
activity of the notified body.</p>
   <p class="norm">12.&nbsp;&nbsp;The conformity assessment body 
concerned may perform the activities of a notified body only after the 
designation has become valid in accordance with paragraph&nbsp;11.</p>
   <p class="norm">13.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall by 26 November 
2017, by means of implementing acts, draw up a list of codes and 
corresponding types of devices for the purpose of specifying the scope 
of the designation of notified bodies. Those implementing acts shall be 
adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article&nbsp;114(3). The Commission, after consulting the MDCG, may 
update this list based, <span class="italics">inter&nbsp;alia</span>, on information arising from the coordination activities described in Article&nbsp;48.</p>