
---
sidebar_position: 51
---
        <h3>conformity-assessment</h3>
<h1>Conformity-assessment-procedures</h1>
<h2>Article 52</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Conformity assessment procedures</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Prior to placing a device on the 
market, manufacturers shall undertake an assessment of the conformity of
 that device, in accordance with the applicable conformity assessment 
procedures set out in Annexes&nbsp;IX to XI.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Prior to putting into service a device 
that is not placed on the market, manufacturers shall undertake an 
assessment of the conformity of that device, in accordance with the 
applicable conformity assessment procedures set out in Annexes&nbsp;IX 
to XI.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of class&nbsp;III 
devices, other than custom-made or investigational devices, shall be 
subject to a conformity assessment as specified in Annex&nbsp;IX. 
Alternatively, the manufacturer may choose to apply a conformity 
assessment as specified in Annex&nbsp;X coupled with a conformity 
assessment as specified in Annex&nbsp;XI.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of class IIb devices, 
other than custom-made or investigational devices, shall be subject to a
 conformity assessment as specified in Chapters&nbsp;I and III of 
Annex&nbsp;IX, and including an assessment of the technical 
documentation as specified in Section&nbsp;4 of that Annex&nbsp;of at 
least one representative device per generic device group.</p>
   <p class="norm">However, for class&nbsp;IIb implantable devices, 
except sutures, staples, dental fillings, dental braces, tooth crowns, 
screws, wedges, plates, wires, pins, clips and connectors, the 
assessment of the technical documentation as specified in Section 4 of 
Annex IX shall apply for every device.</p>
   <p class="norm">Alternatively, the manufacturer may choose to apply a
 conformity assessment based on type examination as specified in 
Annex&nbsp;X coupled with a conformity assessment based on product 
conformity verification as specified in Annex&nbsp;XI.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where justified in view of 
well-established technologies, similar to those used in the exempted 
devices listed in the second subparagraph&nbsp;of paragraph&nbsp;4 of 
this Article, being used in other class IIb implantable devices, or 
where justified in order to protect the health and safety of patients, 
users or other persons or other aspects of public health, the Commission
 is empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with 
Article&nbsp;115 to amend that list by adding other types of class IIb 
implantable devices to that list or removing devices therefrom.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of class IIa devices, 
other than custom-made or investigational devices, shall be subject to a
 conformity assessment as specified in Chapters&nbsp;I and III of 
Annex&nbsp;IX, and including an assessment of the technical 
documentation as specified in Section&nbsp;4 of that Annex&nbsp;of at 
least one representative device for each category of devices.</p>
   <p class="norm">Alternatively, the manufacturer may choose to draw up
 the technical documentation set out in Annexes&nbsp;II and III coupled 
with a conformity assessment as specified in Section&nbsp;10 or 
Section&nbsp;18 of Annex&nbsp;XI. The assessment of the technical 
documentation shall apply for at least one representative device for 
each category of devices.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of class I devices, other
 than custom-made or investigational devices, shall declare the 
conformity of their products by issuing the EU&nbsp;declaration of 
conformity referred to in Article&nbsp;19 after drawing up the technical
 documentation set out in Annexes&nbsp;II and III. If those devices are 
placed on the market in sterile condition, have a measuring function or 
are reusable surgical instruments, the manufacturer shall apply the 
procedures set out in Chapters&nbsp;I and III of Annex&nbsp;IX, or in 
Part&nbsp;A of Annex&nbsp;XI. However, the involvement of the notified 
body in those procedures shall be limited:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">in the case of devices placed on the market in 
sterile condition, to the aspects relating to establishing, securing and
 maintaining sterile conditions;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">in the case of devices with a measuring 
function, to the aspects relating to the conformity of the devices with 
the metrological requirements;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">in the case of reusable surgical instruments, 
to the aspects relating to the reuse of the device, in particular 
cleaning, disinfection, sterilization, maintenance and functional 
testing and the related instructions for use.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of custom-made devices 
shall follow the procedure set out in Annex&nbsp;XIII and draw up the 
statement set out in Section&nbsp;1 of that Annex&nbsp;before placing 
such devices on the market.</p>
   <p class="norm">In addition to the procedure applicable pursuant to 
the first subparagraph, manufacturers of class III custom-made 
implantable devices shall be subject to the conformity assessment as 
specified in Chapter&nbsp;I of Annex&nbsp;IX. Alternatively, the 
manufacturer may choose to apply a conformity assessment as specified in
 Part A of Annex&nbsp;XI.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;In addition to the procedures 
applicable pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;3, 4, 6, or 7 of this Article, in 
the case of devices referred to in the first subparagraph&nbsp;of 
Article&nbsp;1(8), the procedure specified in Section&nbsp;5.2 of 
Annex&nbsp;IX or Section&nbsp;6 of Annex&nbsp;X, as applicable, shall 
also apply.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;In addition to the procedures 
applicable pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;3, 4, 6, or 7 of this Article, in 
the case of devices that are covered by this Regulation in accordance 
with point&nbsp;(f) or (g) of Article&nbsp;1(6) and with the first 
subparagraph&nbsp;of Article&nbsp;1(10), the procedure specified in 
Section&nbsp;5.3 of Annex&nbsp;IX or Section&nbsp;6 of Annex&nbsp;X, as 
applicable, shall also apply.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;In addition to the procedures 
applicable pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;3, 4, 6, or 7, in the case of 
devices that are composed of substances or of combinations of substances
 that are intended to be introduced into the human body via a body 
orifice or applied to the skin and that are absorbed by or locally 
dispersed in the human body, the procedure specified in Section&nbsp;5.4
 of Annex&nbsp;IX or Section&nbsp;6 of Annex&nbsp;X, as applicable, 
shall also apply.</p>
   <p class="norm">12.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Member&nbsp;State in which the 
notified body is established may require that all or certain documents, 
including the technical documentation, audit, assessment and inspection 
reports, relating to the procedures referred to in paragraphs 1 to 7 and
 9 to 11 be made available in an official Union language(s) determined 
by that Member&nbsp;State. In the absence of such requirement, those 
documents shall be available in any official Union language acceptable 
to the notified body.</p>
   <p class="norm">13.&nbsp;&nbsp;Investigational devices shall be subject to the requirements set out in Articles&nbsp;62 to&nbsp;81.</p>
   <p class="norm">14.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission may, by means of 
implementing acts, specify detailed arrangements and procedural aspects 
with a view to ensuring the harmonised application of the conformity 
assessment procedures by the notified bodies for any of the following 
aspects:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the frequency and the sampling basis of the 
assessment of the technical documentation on a representative basis as 
set out in the third paragraph&nbsp;of Section&nbsp;2.3 and in 
Section&nbsp;3.5 of Annex&nbsp;IX in the case of class&nbsp;IIa and 
class&nbsp;IIb devices, and in Section&nbsp;10.2 of Annex&nbsp;XI in the
 case of class&nbsp;IIa devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the minimum frequency of unannounced on-site 
audits and sample tests to be conducted by notified bodies in accordance
 with Section&nbsp;3.4 of Annex&nbsp;IX, taking into account the 
risk-class and the type of device;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the physical, laboratory or other tests to be 
carried out by notified bodies in the context of sample tests, 
assessment of the technical documentation and type examination in 
accordance with Sections 3.4 and 4.3 of Annex&nbsp;IX, Section&nbsp;3 of
 Annex&nbsp;X and Section&nbsp;15 of Annex&nbsp;XI.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">The implementing acts referred to in the first 
subparagraph&nbsp;shall be adopted in accordance with the examination 
procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>