
---
sidebar_position: 14
---
        <h3>making-available-on-the-market-and-putting--into-service-of-devices-obligations-of-economic-operators--reprocessing-ce-marking-free-movement</h3>
<h1>Person-responsible-for-regulatory-compliance</h1>
<h2>Article 15</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Person responsible for regulatory compliance</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall have available 
within their organisation at least one person responsible for regulatory
 compliance who possesses the requisite expertise in the field of 
medical devices. The requisite expertise shall be demonstrated by either
 of the following qualifications:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">a diploma, certificate or other evidence of 
formal qualification, awarded on completion of a university degree or of
 a course of study recognised as equivalent by the Member&nbsp;State 
concerned, in law, medicine, pharmacy, engineering or another relevant 
scientific discipline, and at least one year of professional experience 
in regulatory affairs or in quality management systems relating to 
medical devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">four years of professional experience in regulatory affairs or in quality management systems relating to medical devices.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">Without prejudice to national provisions regarding 
professional qualifications, manufacturers of custom-made devices may 
demonstrate the requisite expertise referred to in the first 
subparagraph&nbsp;by having at least two years of professional 
experience within a relevant field of manufacturing.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Micro and small enterprises within the meaning of Commission Recommendation&nbsp;2003/361/EC&nbsp;(<a href="#E0003" id="src.E0003">
         <span class="superscript">3</span>
      </a>) shall not be required to have the person responsible for 
regulatory compliance within their organisation but shall have such 
person permanently and continuously at their disposal.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The person responsible for regulatory compliance shall at least be responsible for ensuring that:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the conformity of the devices is appropriately 
checked, in accordance with the quality management system under which 
the devices are manufactured, before a device is released;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the technical documentation and the EU declaration of conformity are drawn up and kept up-to-date;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the post-market surveillance obligations are complied with in accordance with Article&nbsp;10(10);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the reporting obligations referred to in Articles&nbsp;87 to 91 are fulfilled;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">in the case of investigational devices, the statement referred to in Section&nbsp;4.1 of Chapter II of Annex&nbsp;XV is issued.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;If a number of persons are jointly 
responsible for regulatory compliance in accordance with paragraphs 1, 2
 and 3, their respective areas of responsibility shall be stipulated in 
writing.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The person responsible for regulatory 
compliance shall suffer no disadvantage within the manufacturer's 
organisation in relation to the proper fulfilment of his or her duties, 
regardless of whether or not they are employees of the organisation.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Authorised representatives shall have 
permanently and continuously at their disposal at least one person 
responsible for regulatory compliance who possesses the requisite 
expertise regarding the regulatory requirements for medical devices in 
the Union. The requisite expertise shall be demonstrated by either of 
the following qualifications:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">a diploma, certificate or other evidence of 
formal qualification, awarded on completion of a university degree or of
 a course of study recognised as equivalent by the Member&nbsp;State 
concerned, in law, medicine, pharmacy, engineering or another relevant 
scientific discipline, and at least one year of professional experience 
in regulatory affairs or in quality management systems relating to 
medical devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">four years of professional experience in regulatory affairs or in quality management systems relating to medical devices.</p>
      </div>
   </div>