
---
sidebar_position: 10
---
        <h3>making-available-on-the-market-and-putting--into-service-of-devices-obligations-of-economic-operators--reprocessing-ce-marking-free-movement</h3>
<h1>Authorised-representative</h1>
<h2>Article 11</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Authorised representative</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the manufacturer of a device is 
not established in a Member&nbsp;State, the device may only be placed on
 the Union market if the manufacturer designates a sole authorised 
representative.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The designation shall constitute the 
authorised representative's mandate, it shall be valid only when 
accepted in writing by the authorised representative and shall be 
effective at least for all devices of the same generic device group.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authorised representative shall 
perform the tasks specified in the mandate agreed between it and the 
manufacturer. The authorised representative shall provide a copy of the 
mandate to the competent authority, upon request.</p>
   <p class="norm">The mandate shall require, and the manufacturer shall
 enable, the authorised representative to perform at least the following
 tasks in relation to the devices that it covers:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">verify that the EU declaration of conformity 
and technical documentation have been drawn up and, where applicable, 
that an appropriate conformity assessment procedure has been carried out
 by the manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">keep available a copy of the technical 
documentation, the EU declaration of conformity and, if applicable, a 
copy of the relevant certificate, including any amendments and 
supplements, issued in accordance with Article&nbsp;56, at the disposal 
of competent authorities for the period referred to in 
Article&nbsp;10(8);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">comply with the registration obligations laid 
down in Article&nbsp;31 and verify that the manufacturer has complied 
with the registration obligations laid down in Articles&nbsp;27 and 29;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">in response to a request from a competent 
authority, provide that competent authority with all the information and
 documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of a device, in 
an official Union language determined by the Member&nbsp;State 
concerned;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">forward to the manufacturer any request by a 
competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State in which the authorised 
representative has its registered place of business for samples, or 
access to a device and verify that the competent authority receives the 
samples or is given access to the device;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">cooperate with the competent authorities on any
 preventive or corrective action taken to eliminate or, if that is not 
possible, mitigate the risks posed by devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">immediately inform the manufacturer about 
complaints and reports from healthcare professionals, patients and users
 about suspected incidents related to a device for which they have been 
designated;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(h)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">terminate the mandate if the manufacturer acts contrary to its obligations under this Regulation.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The mandate referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;3 of this Article&nbsp;shall not delegate the 
manufacturer's obligations laid down in Article&nbsp;10(1), (2), (3), 
(4), (6), (7), (9), (10), (11) and (12).</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Without prejudice to paragraph&nbsp;4 
of this Article, where the manufacturer is not established in a 
Member&nbsp;State and has not complied with the obligations laid down in
 Article&nbsp;10, the authorised representative shall be legally liable 
for defective devices on the same basis as, and jointly and severally 
with, the manufacturer.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;An authorised representative who 
terminates its mandate on the ground referred to in point&nbsp;(h) of 
paragraph&nbsp;3 shall immediately inform the competent authority of the
 Member&nbsp;State in which it is established and, where applicable, the
 notified body that was involved in the conformity assessment for the 
device of the termination of the mandate and the reasons therefor.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any reference in this Regulation to the
 competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State in which the manufacturer 
has its registered place of business shall be understood as a reference 
to the competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State in which the 
authorised representative, designated by a manufacturer referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;1, has its registered place of business.</p>