
---
sidebar_position: 9
---
        <h3>making-available-on-the-market-and-putting--into-service-of-devices-obligations-of-economic-operators--reprocessing-ce-marking-free-movement</h3>
<h1>General-obligations-of-manufacturers</h1>
<h2>Article 10</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">General obligations of manufacturers</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;When placing their devices on the 
market or putting them into service, manufacturers shall ensure that 
they have been designed and manufactured in accordance with the 
requirements of this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall establish, 
document, implement and maintain a system for risk management as 
described in Section&nbsp;3 of Annex&nbsp;I.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall conduct a clinical 
evaluation in accordance with the requirements set out in 
Article&nbsp;61 and Annex&nbsp;XIV, including a PMCF.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of devices other than 
custom-made devices shall draw up and keep up to date technical 
documentation for those devices. The technical documentation shall be 
such as to allow the conformity of the device with the requirements of 
this Regulation to be assessed. The technical documentation shall 
include the elements set out in Annexes&nbsp;II and&nbsp;III.</p>
   <p class="norm">The Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts 
in accordance with Article&nbsp;115 amending, in the light of technical 
progress, the Annexes&nbsp;II and III.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of custom-made devices 
shall draw up, keep up to date and keep available for competent 
authorities documentation in accordance with Section&nbsp;2 of 
Annex&nbsp;XIII.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where compliance with the applicable 
requirements has been demonstrated following the applicable conformity 
assessment procedure, manufacturers of devices, other than custom-made 
or investigational devices, shall draw up an EU declaration of 
conformity in accordance with Article&nbsp;19, and affix the CE marking 
of conformity in accordance with Article&nbsp;20.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall comply with the 
obligations relating to the UDI system referred to in Article&nbsp;27 
and with the registration obligations referred to in Articles&nbsp;29 
and 31.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall keep the technical 
documentation, the EU declaration of conformity and, if applicable, a 
copy of any relevant certificate, including any amendments and 
supplements, issued in accordance with Article&nbsp;56, available for 
the competent authorities for a period of at least 10 years after the 
last device covered by the EU&nbsp;declaration of conformity has been 
placed on the market. In the case of implantable devices, the period 
shall be at least 15 years after the last device has been placed on the 
market.</p>
   <p class="norm">Upon request by a competent authority, the 
manufacturer shall, as indicated therein, provide that technical 
documentation in its entirety or a summary thereof.</p>
   <p class="norm">A manufacturer with a registered place of business 
outside the Union shall, in order to allow its authorised representative
 to fulfil the tasks mentioned in Article&nbsp;11(3), ensure that the 
authorised representative has the necessary documentation permanently 
available.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall ensure that 
procedures are in place to keep series production in conformity with the
 requirements of this Regulation. Changes in device design or 
characteristics and changes in the harmonised standards or CS by 
reference to which the conformity of a device is declared shall be 
adequately taken into account in a timely manner. Manufacturers of 
devices, other than investigational devices, shall establish, document, 
implement, maintain, keep up to date and continually improve a quality 
management system that shall ensure compliance with this Regulation in 
the most effective manner and in a manner that is proportionate to the 
risk class and the type of device.</p>
   <p class="norm">The quality management system shall cover all parts 
and elements of a manufacturer's organisation dealing with the quality 
of processes, procedures and devices. It shall govern the structure, 
responsibilities, procedures, processes and management resources 
required to implement the principles and actions necessary to achieve 
compliance with the provisions of this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">The quality management system shall address at least the following aspects:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">a strategy for regulatory compliance, including
 compliance with conformity assessment procedures and procedures for 
management of modifications to the devices covered by the system;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">identification of applicable general safety and
 performance requirements and exploration of options to address those 
requirements;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">responsibility of the management;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">resource management, including selection and control of suppliers and sub-contractors;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">risk management as set out in in Section&nbsp;3 of Annex&nbsp;I;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">clinical evaluation in accordance with Article&nbsp;61 and Annex&nbsp;XIV, including PMCF;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">product realisation, including planning, design, development, production and service provision;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(h)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">verification of the UDI assignments made in 
accordance with Article&nbsp;27(3) to all relevant devices and ensuring 
consistency and validity of information provided in accordance with 
Article&nbsp;29;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(i)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">setting-up, implementation and maintenance of a post-market surveillance system, in accordance with Article&nbsp;83;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(j)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">handling communication with competent 
authorities, notified bodies, other economic operators, customers and/or
 other stakeholders;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(k)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">processes for reporting of serious incidents and field safety corrective actions in the context of vigilance;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(l)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">management of corrective and preventive actions and verification of their effectiveness;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(m)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">processes for monitoring and measurement of output, data analysis and product improvement.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of devices shall 
implement and keep up to date the post-market surveillance system in 
accordance with Article&nbsp;83.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall ensure that the 
device is accompanied by the information set out in Section&nbsp;23 of 
Annex&nbsp;I in an official Union language(s) determined by the 
Member&nbsp;State in which the device is made available to the user or 
patient. The particulars on the label shall be indelible, easily legible
 and clearly comprehensible to the intended user or patient.</p>
   <p class="norm">12.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers who consider or have 
reason to believe that a device which they have placed on the market or 
put into service is not in conformity with this Regulation shall 
immediately take the necessary corrective action to bring that device 
into conformity, to withdraw it or to recall it, as appropriate. They 
shall inform the distributors of the device in question and, where 
applicable, the authorised representative and importers accordingly.</p>
   <p class="norm">Where the device presents a serious risk, 
manufacturers shall immediately inform the competent authorities of the 
Member&nbsp;States in which they made the device available and, where 
applicable, the notified body that issued a certificate for the device 
in accordance with Article&nbsp;56, in particular, of the non-compliance
 and of any corrective action taken.</p>
   <p class="norm">13.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall have a system for 
recording and reporting of incidents and field safety corrective actions
 as described in Articles&nbsp;87 and 88.</p>
   <p class="norm">14.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers shall, upon request by a
 competent authority, provide it with all the information and 
documentation necessary to demonstrate the conformity of the device, in 
an official Union language determined by the Member&nbsp;State 
concerned. The competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State in which the
 manufacturer has its registered place of business may require that the 
manufacturer provide samples of the device free of charge or, where that
 is impracticable, grant access to the device. Manufacturers shall 
cooperate with a competent authority, at its request, on any corrective 
action taken to eliminate or, if that is not possible, mitigate the 
risks posed by devices which they have placed on the market or put into 
service.</p>
   <p class="norm">If the manufacturer fails to cooperate or the 
information and documentation provided is incomplete or incorrect, the 
competent authority may, in order to ensure the protection of public 
health and patient safety, take all appropriate measures to prohibit or 
restrict the device's being made available on its national market, to 
withdraw the device from that market or to recall it until the 
manufacturer cooperates or provides complete and correct information.</p>
   <p class="norm">If a competent authority considers or has reason to 
believe that a device has caused damage, it shall, upon request, 
facilitate the provision of the information and documentation referred 
to in the first subparagraph&nbsp;to the potentially injured patient or 
user and, as appropriate, the patient's or user's successor in title, 
the patient's or user's health insurance company or other third parties 
affected by the damage caused to the patient or user, without prejudice 
to data protection rules and, unless there is an overriding public 
interest in disclosure, without prejudice to the protection of 
intellectual property rights.</p>
   <p class="norm">The competent authority need not comply with the 
obligation laid down in the third subparagraph&nbsp;where disclosure of 
the information and documentation referred to in the first 
subparagraph&nbsp;is ordinarily dealt with in the context of legal 
proceedings.</p>
   <p class="modref">
      <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745R%2801%29" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745R(01): REPLACED">▼C1</a><a class="anchorarrow" id="C1-3" href="#C1-4"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
   </p>
   <p class="norm">15.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where manufacturers have their devices
 designed or manufactured by another legal or natural person the 
information on the identity of that person shall be part of the 
information to be submitted in accordance with Article 29(4).</p>
   <p class="modref">
      <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745">▼B</a><a class="anchorarrow" id="B-3" href="#B-4"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
   </p>
   <p class="norm">16.&nbsp;&nbsp;Natural or legal persons may claim 
compensation for damage caused by a defective device in accordance with 
applicable Union and national law.</p>
   <p class="norm">Manufacturers shall, in a manner that is 
proportionate to the risk class, type of device and the size of the 
enterprise, have measures in place to provide sufficient financial 
coverage in respect of their potential liability under 
Directive&nbsp;85/374/EEC, without prejudice to more protective measures
 under national law.</p>