
---
sidebar_position: 19
---
        <h3>making-available-on-the-market-and-putting--into-service-of-devices-obligations-of-economic-operators--reprocessing-ce-marking-free-movement</h3>
<h1>CE-marking-of-conformity</h1>
<h2>Article 20</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">CE marking of conformity</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Devices, other than custom-made or 
investigational devices, considered to be in conformity with the 
requirements of this Regulation shall bear the CE marking of conformity,
 as presented in Annex&nbsp;V.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The CE marking shall be subject to the 
general principles set out in Article&nbsp;30 of 
Regulation&nbsp;(EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;765/2008.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The CE marking shall be affixed 
visibly, legibly and indelibly to the device or its sterile packaging. 
Where such affixing is not possible or not warranted on account of the 
nature of the device, the CE marking shall be affixed to the packaging. 
The CE marking shall also appear in any instructions for use and on any 
sales packaging.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The CE marking shall be affixed before 
the device is placed on the market. It may be followed by a pictogram or
 any other mark indicating a special risk or use.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where applicable, the CE marking shall 
be followed by the identification number of the notified body 
responsible for the conformity assessment procedures set out in 
Article&nbsp;52. The identification number shall also be indicated in 
any promotional material which mentions that a device fulfils the 
requirements for CE marking.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where devices are subject to other 
Union legislation which also provides for the affixing of the CE 
marking, the CE marking shall indicate that the devices also fulfil the 
requirements of that other legislation.</p>