
---
sidebar_position: 15
---
        <h3>making-available-on-the-market-and-putting--into-service-of-devices-obligations-of-economic-operators--reprocessing-ce-marking-free-movement</h3>
<h1>Cases-in-which-obligations-of-manufacturers-apply-to-importers-distributors-or-other-persons</h1>
<h2>Article 16</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Cases in which obligations of manufacturers apply to importers, distributors or other persons</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;A distributor, importer or other 
natural or legal person shall assume the obligations incumbent on 
manufacturers if it does any of the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">makes available on the market a device under 
its name, registered trade name or registered trade mark, except in 
cases where a distributor or importer enters into an agreement with a 
manufacturer whereby the manufacturer is identified as such on the label
 and is responsible for meeting the requirements placed on manufacturers
 in this Regulation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">changes the intended purpose of a device already placed on the market or put into service;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">modifies a device already placed on the market 
or put into service in such a way that compliance with the applicable 
requirements may be affected.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">The first subparagraph&nbsp;shall not apply to any 
person who, while not considered a manufacturer as defined in 
point&nbsp;(30) of Article&nbsp;2, assembles or adapts for an individual
 patient a device already on the market without changing its intended 
purpose.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;For the purposes of point&nbsp;(c) of 
paragraph&nbsp;1, the following shall not be considered to be a 
modification of a device that could affect its compliance with the 
applicable requirements:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">provision, including translation, of the 
information supplied by the manufacturer, in accordance with 
Section&nbsp;23 of Annex&nbsp;I, relating to a device already placed on 
the market and of further information which is necessary in order to 
market the device in the relevant Member&nbsp;State;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">changes to the outer packaging of a device 
already placed on the market, including a change of pack size, if the 
repackaging is necessary in order to market the device in the relevant 
Member&nbsp;State and if it is carried out in such conditions that the 
original condition of the device cannot be affected by it. In the case 
of devices placed on the market in sterile condition, it shall be 
presumed that the original condition of the device is adversely affected
 if the packaging that is necessary for maintaining the sterile 
condition is opened, damaged or otherwise negatively affected by the 
repackaging.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;A distributor or importer that carries 
out any of the activities mentioned in points&nbsp;(a) and&nbsp;(b) of 
paragraph&nbsp;2 shall indicate on the device or, where that is 
impracticable, on its packaging or in a document accompanying the 
device, the activity carried out together with its name, registered 
trade name or registered trade mark, registered place of business and 
the address at which it can be contacted, so that its location can be 
established.</p>
   <p class="norm">Distributors and importers shall ensure that they 
have in place a quality management system that includes procedures which
 ensure that the translation of information is accurate and up-to-date, 
and that the activities mentioned in points&nbsp;(a) and&nbsp;(b) of 
paragraph&nbsp;2 are performed by a means and under conditions that 
preserve the original condition of the device and that the packaging of 
the repackaged device is not defective, of poor quality or untidy. The 
quality management system shall cover, <span class="italics">inter&nbsp;alia</span>,
 procedures ensuring that the distributor or importer is informed of any
 corrective action taken by the manufacturer in relation to the device 
in question in order to respond to safety issues or to bring it into 
conformity with this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;At least 28 days prior to making the 
relabelled or repackaged device available on the market, distributors or
 importers carrying out any of the activities mentioned in 
points&nbsp;(a) and (b) of paragraph&nbsp;2 shall inform the 
manufacturer and the competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State in 
which they plan to make the device available of the intention to make 
the relabelled or repackaged device available and, upon request, shall 
provide the manufacturer and the competent authority with a sample or 
mock-up of the relabelled or repackaged device, including any translated
 label and instructions for use. Within the same period of 28&nbsp;days,
 the distributor or importer shall submit to the competent authority a 
certificate, issued by a notified body designated for the type of 
devices that are subject to activities mentioned in points&nbsp;(a) 
and&nbsp;(b) of paragraph&nbsp;2, attesting that the quality management 
system of the distributer or importer complies with the requirements 
laid down in paragraph&nbsp;3.</p>