
---
sidebar_position: 17
---
        <h3>making-available-on-the-market-and-putting--into-service-of-devices-obligations-of-economic-operators--reprocessing-ce-marking-free-movement</h3>
<h1>Implant-card-and-information-to-be-supplied-to-the-patient-with-an-implanted-device</h1>
<h2>Article 18</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Implant card and information to be supplied to the patient with an implanted device</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The manufacturer of an implantable device shall provide together with the device the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">information allowing the identification of the 
device, including the device name, serial number, lot number, the UDI, 
the device model, as well as the name, address and the website of the 
manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">any warnings, precautions or measures to be 
taken by the patient or a healthcare professional with regard to 
reciprocal interference with reasonably foreseeable external influences,
 medical examinations or environmental conditions;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">any information about the expected lifetime of the device and any necessary follow-up;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">any other information to ensure safe use of the
 device by the patient, including the information in point&nbsp;(u) of 
Section&nbsp;23.4 of Annex&nbsp;I.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">The information referred to in the first 
subparagraph&nbsp;shall be provided, for the purpose of making it 
available to the particular patient who has been implanted with the 
device, by any means that allow rapid access to that information and 
shall be stated in the language(s) determined by the concerned 
Member&nbsp;State. The information shall be written in a way that is 
readily understood by a lay person and shall be updated where 
appropriate. Updates of the information shall be made available to the 
patient via the website mentioned in point&nbsp;(a) of the first 
subparagraph.</p>
   <p class="norm">In addition, the manufacturer shall provide the 
information referred to in point&nbsp;(a) of the first 
subparagraph&nbsp;on an implant card delivered with the device.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States shall require health
 institutions to make the information referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 
available, by any means that allow rapid access to that information, to 
any patients who have been implanted with the device, together with the 
implant card, which shall bear their identity.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The following implants shall be 
exempted from the obligations laid down in this Article: sutures, 
staples, dental fillings, dental braces, tooth crowns, screws, wedges, 
plates, wires, pins, clips and connectors. The Commission is empowered 
to adopt delegated acts in accordance with Article&nbsp;115 to amend 
this list by adding other types of implants to it or by removing 
implants therefrom.</p>