---
sidebar_position: 119
---
        <h3>final provisions</h3>
<h1>Transitional provisions</h1>
<h2>Article 120</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Transitional provisions</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;From 26 May 2020, any publication of a 
notification in respect of a notified body in accordance with 
Directives&nbsp;90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC shall become void.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Certificates issued by notified bodies 
in accordance with Directives&nbsp;90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC prior to 25 
May 2017 shall remain valid until the end of the period indicated on the
 certificate, except for certificates issued in accordance with 
Annex&nbsp;4 to Directive&nbsp;90/385/EEC or Annex&nbsp;IV to 
Directive&nbsp;93/42/EEC which shall become void at the latest on 27 May
 2022.</p>
   <p class="norm">Certificates issued by notified bodies in accordance 
with Directives&nbsp;90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC from 25 May 2017 shall 
remain valid until the end of the period indicated on the certificate, 
which shall not exceed five years from its issuance. They shall however 
become void at the latest on 27 May 2024.</p>
   <p class="modref">
      <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745R%2802%29" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745R(02): REPLACED">▼C2</a><a class="anchorarrow" id="C2-4" href="#C2-5"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
   </p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;By way of derogation from Article 5 of 
this Regulation, a device which is a class&nbsp;I device pursuant to 
Directive 93/42/EEC, for which the declaration of conformity was drawn 
up prior to 26&nbsp;May&nbsp;2020 and for which the conformity 
assessment procedure pursuant to this Regulation requires the 
involvement of a notified body, or which has a certificate that was 
issued in accordance with Directive 90/385/EEC or Directive 93/42/EEC 
and that is valid by virtue of paragraph 2 of this Article, may be 
placed on the market or put into service until 26&nbsp;May&nbsp;2024, 
provided that from 26&nbsp;May&nbsp;2020 it continues to comply with 
either of those Directives, and provided there are no significant 
changes in the design and intended purpose. However, the requirements of
 this Regulation relating to post-market surveillance, market 
surveillance, vigilance, registration of economic operators and of 
devices shall apply in place of the corresponding requirements in 
those&nbsp;Directives.</p>
   <p class="modref">
      <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745">▼B</a><a class="anchorarrow" id="B-6" href="#B-7"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
   </p>
   <p class="norm">Without prejudice to Chapter&nbsp;IV and 
paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article, the notified body that issued the 
certificate referred to in the first subparagraph&nbsp;shall continue to
 be responsible for the appropriate surveillance in respect of all of 
the applicable requirements relating to the devices it has certified.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Devices lawfully placed on the market 
pursuant to Directives&nbsp;90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC prior to 26 May 
2020, and devices placed <span>
         <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745R%2802%29" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745R(02): REPLACED">
            <span class="boldface">►C2</span>
         </a><a class="anchorarrow" id="C2-5" href="#C2-6"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
      </span>&nbsp;on the market from 26&nbsp;May&nbsp;2020 pursuant to 
paragraph 3 of this Article, may continue to be made available on the 
market or put into service until 26&nbsp;May&nbsp;2025.<span class="boldface">&nbsp;◄ </span>
   </p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;By way of derogation from 
Directives&nbsp;90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC, devices which comply with this
 Regulation may be placed on the market prior to 26 May 2020.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;By way of derogation from 
Directives&nbsp;90/385/EEC and 93/42/EEC, conformity assessment bodies 
which comply with this Regulation may be designated <span>
         <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745R%2801%29" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745R(01): REPLACED">
            <span class="boldface">►C1</span>
         </a><a class="anchorarrow" id="C1-6" href="#C1-7"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
      </span>&nbsp;and notified prior to 26&nbsp;May 2020. Notified bodies<span class="boldface">&nbsp;◄ </span>
 which are designated and notified in accordance with this Regulation 
may carry out the conformity assessment procedures laid down in this 
Regulation and issue certificates in accordance with this Regulation 
prior to 26 May 2020.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;As regards devices subject to the 
consultation procedure laid down in Article&nbsp;54, paragraph&nbsp;5 of
 this Article&nbsp;shall apply provided that the necessary appointments 
to the MDCG and expert panels have been made.</p>
   <p class="modref">
      <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745R%2802%29" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745R(02): REPLACED">▼C2</a><a class="anchorarrow" id="C2-6" href="#C2-7"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
   </p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;By way of derogation from Article 10a, 
point (a) of Article 10b(1) and Article 11(5) of Directive 90/385/EEC 
and Article 14(1) and (2), points (a) and (b) of Article 14a(1) and 
Article 16(5) of Directive 93/42/EEC, manufacturers, authorised 
representatives, importers and notified bodies which, during the period 
starting on the later of the dates referred to in point (d) of 
Article 123(3) and ending 18 months later, comply with Articles 29(4), 
31(1) and 56(5) of this Regulation shall be considered to comply with 
the laws and regulations adopted by Member States in accordance with, 
respectively, Article 10a of Directive 90/385/EEC or Article 14(1) and 
(2) of Directive 93/42/EEC, with, respectively, point (a) of 
Article 10b(1) of Directive 90/385/EEC or points (a) and (b) of 
Article 14a(1) of Directive 93/42/EEC and with, respectively, 
Article 11(5) of Directive 90/385/EEC or Article 16(5) of Directive 
93/42/EEC, as specified in Decision 2010/227/EU.</p>
   <p class="modref">
      <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745">▼B</a><a class="anchorarrow" id="B-7" href="#B-8"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
   </p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;Authorisations granted by the competent
 authorities of the Member&nbsp;States in accordance with 
Article&nbsp;9(9) of Directive&nbsp;90/385/EEC or Article&nbsp;11(13) of
 Directive&nbsp;93/42/EEC shall keep the validity indicated in the 
authorisation.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;<span>
         <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745R%2801%29" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745R(01): REPLACED">
            <span class="boldface">►C1</span>
         </a><a class="anchorarrow" id="C1-7" href="#C1-8"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
      </span>&nbsp;Devices falling within the scope of this Regulation in accordance with point (g) of Article&nbsp;1(6) which<span class="boldface">&nbsp;◄ </span>
 have been legally placed on the market or put into service in 
accordance with the rules in force in the Member&nbsp;States prior to 26
 May 2020 may continue to be placed on the market and put into service 
in the Member&nbsp;States concerned.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;Clinical investigations which have 
started to be conducted in accordance with Article&nbsp;10 of 
Directive&nbsp;90/385/EEC or Article&nbsp;15 of Directive&nbsp;93/42/EEC
 prior to 26 May 2020 may continue to be conducted. As of 26 May 2020, 
however, the reporting of serious adverse events and device deficiencies
 shall be carried out in accordance with this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">12.&nbsp;&nbsp;Until the Commission has designated, 
pursuant to Article&nbsp;27(2), issuing entities, GS1, HIBCC and ICCBBA 
shall be considered to be designated issuing entities.</p>