---
sidebar_position: 69
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Application for clinical investigations</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The sponsor of a clinical investigation
 shall submit an application to the Member&nbsp;State(s) in which the 
clinical investigation is to be conducted (referred to for the purposes 
of this Article&nbsp;as ‘Member&nbsp;State concerned’) accompanied by 
the documentation referred to in Chapter II of Annex&nbsp;XV.</p>
   <p class="norm">The application shall be submitted by means of the 
electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;73, which shall generate a
 Union-wide unique single identification number for the clinical 
investigation, which shall be used for all relevant communication in 
relation to that clinical investigation. Within 10 days of it receiving 
the application, the Member&nbsp;State concerned shall notify the 
sponsor as to whether the clinical investigation falls within the scope 
of this Regulation and as to whether the application dossier is complete
 in accordance with Chapter II of Annex&nbsp;XV.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Within one week of any change occurring
 in relation to the documentation referred to in Chapter II of 
Annex&nbsp;XV, the sponsor shall update the relevant data in the 
electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;73 and make that change to
 the documentation clearly identifiable. The Member&nbsp;State concerned
 shall be notified of the update by means of that electronic system.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the Member&nbsp;State concerned 
finds that the clinical investigation applied for does not fall within 
the scope of this Regulation or that the application dossier is not 
complete, it shall inform the sponsor thereof and shall set a time limit
 of maximum 10 days for the sponsor to comment or to complete the 
application by means of the electronic system referred to in 
Article&nbsp;73. The Member&nbsp;State concerned may extend this period 
by a maximum of 20 days where appropriate.</p>
   <p class="norm">Where the sponsor has not provided comments nor 
completed the application within the time limit referred to in the first
 subparagraph, the application shall be deemed to have lapsed. Where the
 sponsor considers the application does fall under the scope of this 
Regulation and/or is complete but the Member&nbsp;State concerned does 
not, the application shall be considered to have been rejected. The 
Member&nbsp;State concerned shall provide for an appeal procedure in 
respect of such refusal.</p>
   <p class="norm">The Member&nbsp;State concerned shall notify the 
sponsor within five days of receipt of the comments or of the requested 
additional information, whether the clinical investigation is considered
 as falling within the scope of this Regulation and the application is 
complete.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Member&nbsp;State concerned may 
also extend the period referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 and&nbsp;3 each 
by a further five&nbsp;days.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;For the purposes of this Chapter, the 
date on which the sponsor is notified in accordance with 
paragraph&nbsp;1 or 3 shall be the validation date of the application. 
Where the sponsor is not notified, the validation date shall be the last
 day of the periods referred to in paragraphs&nbsp;1, 3 and 4 
respectively.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;During the period when the application 
is being assessed, the Member&nbsp;State may request additional 
information from the sponsor. The expiry of the period laid down in 
point&nbsp;(b) of paragraph&nbsp;7 shall be suspended from the date of 
the first request until such time as the additional information has been
 received.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;The sponsor may start the clinical investigation in the following circumstances:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">in the case of investigational class I devices 
or in the case of non-invasive class&nbsp;IIa and class&nbsp;IIb 
devices, unless otherwise stated by national law, immediately after the 
validation date of the application pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;5, and 
provided that a negative opinion which is valid for the entire 
Member&nbsp;State, under national law, has not been issued by an ethics 
committee in the Member&nbsp;State concerned in respect of the clinical 
investigation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">in the case of investigational devices, other 
than those referred to in point&nbsp;(a), as soon as the 
Member&nbsp;State concerned has notified the sponsor of its 
authorisation, and provided that a negative opinion which is valid for 
the entire Member&nbsp;State, under national law, has not been issued by
 an ethics committee in the Member&nbsp;State concerned in respect of 
the clinical investigation. The Member&nbsp;State shall notify the 
sponsor of the authorisation within 45&nbsp;days of the validation date 
referred to in paragraph&nbsp;5. The Member&nbsp;State may extend this 
period by a further 20&nbsp;days for the purpose of consulting with 
experts.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission is empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with Article&nbsp;115 amending, in the 
light of technical progress and global regulatory developments, the 
requirements laid down in Chapter&nbsp;II of Annex&nbsp;XV.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;In order to ensure the uniform 
application of the requirements laid down in Chapter&nbsp;II of 
Annex&nbsp;XV, the Commission may adopt implementing acts to the extent 
necessary to resolve issues of divergent interpretation and of practical
 application. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance 
with the examination procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>