---
sidebar_position: 67
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Clinical investigations in emergency situations</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;By way of derogation from 
point&nbsp;(f) of Article&nbsp;62(4), from points (a) and (b) of 
Article&nbsp;64(1) and from points (a) and (b) of Article&nbsp;65, 
informed consent to participate in a clinical investigation may be 
obtained, and information on the clinical investigation may be given, 
after the decision to include the subject in the clinical investigation,
 provided that that decision is taken at the time of the first 
intervention on the subject, in accordance with the clinical 
investigation plan for that clinical investigation and that all of the 
following conditions are fulfilled:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">due to the urgency of the situation, caused by a
 sudden life-threatening or other sudden serious medical condition, the 
subject is unable to provide prior informed consent and to receive prior
 information on the clinical investigation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">there are scientific grounds to expect that 
participation of the subject in the clinical investigation will have the
 potential to produce a direct clinically relevant benefit for the 
subject resulting in a measurable health-related improvement alleviating
 the suffering and/or improving the health of the subject, or in the 
diagnosis of its condition;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">it is not possible within the therapeutic 
window to supply all prior information to and obtain prior informed 
consent from his or her legally designated representative;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the investigator certifies that he or she is 
not aware of any objections to participate in the clinical investigation
 previously expressed by the subject;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the clinical investigation relates directly to 
the subject's medical condition because of which it is not possible 
within the therapeutic window to obtain prior informed consent from the 
subject or from his or her legally designated representative and to 
supply prior information, and the clinical investigation is of such a 
nature that it may be conducted exclusively in emergency situations;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the clinical investigation poses a minimal risk
 to, and imposes a minimal burden on, the subject in comparison with the
 standard treatment of the subject's condition.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Following an intervention pursuant to 
paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article, informed consent in accordance with 
Article&nbsp;63 shall be sought to continue the participation of the 
subject in the clinical investigation, and information on the clinical 
investigation shall be given, in accordance with the following 
requirements:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">regarding incapacitated subjects and minors, 
the informed consent shall be sought by the investigator from his or her
 legally designated representative without undue delay and the 
information referred to in Article&nbsp;63(2) shall be given as soon as 
possible to the subject and to his or her legally designated 
representative;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">regarding other subjects, the informed consent 
shall be sought by the investigator without undue delay from the subject
 or his or her legally designated representative, whichever can be done 
sooner, and the information referred to in Article&nbsp;63(2) shall be 
given as soon as possible to the subject or his or her legally 
designated representative, as applicable.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">For the purposes of point&nbsp;(b) where informed 
consent has been obtained from the legally designated representative, 
informed consent to continue the participation in the clinical 
investigation shall be obtained from the subject as soon as he or she is
 capable of giving informed consent.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;If the subject or, where applicable, 
his or her legally designated representative does not give consent, he 
or she shall be informed of the right to object to the use of data 
obtained from the clinical investigation.</p>