---
sidebar_position: 70
---
        <h3>clinical evaluation and clinical investigations</h3>
<h1>Assessment by Member States</h1>
<h2>Article 71</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Assessment by Member&nbsp;States</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States shall ensure that 
the persons validating and assessing the application, or deciding on it,
 do not have conflicts of interest, are independent of the sponsor, the 
investigators involved and of natural or legal persons financing the 
clinical investigation, as well as free of any other undue influence.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States shall ensure that 
the assessment is done jointly by an appropriate number of persons who 
collectively have the necessary qualifications and experience.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States shall assess whether
 the clinical investigation is designed in such a way that potential 
remaining risks to subjects or third persons, after risk minimization, 
are justified, when weighed against the clinical benefits to be 
expected. They shall, while taking into account applicable CS or 
harmonised standards, examine in particular:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the demonstration of compliance of the 
investigational device(s) with the applicable general safety and 
performance requirements, apart from the aspects covered by the clinical
 investigation, and whether, with regard to those aspects, every 
precaution has been taken to protect the health and safety of the 
subjects. This includes, where appropriate, assurance of technical and 
biological safety testing and pre-clinical evaluation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">whether the risk-minimisation solutions 
employed by the sponsor are described in harmonised standards and, in 
those cases where the sponsor does not use harmonised standards, whether
 the risk-minimisation solutions provide a level of protection that is 
equivalent to that provided by harmonised standards;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">whether the measures planned for the safe 
installation, putting into service and maintenance of the 
investigational device are adequate;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the reliability and robustness of the data 
generated in the clinical investigation, taking account of statistical 
approaches, design of the investigation and methodological aspects, 
including sample size, comparator and endpoints;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">whether the requirements of Annex&nbsp;XV are met;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">in the case of devices for sterile use, 
evidence of the validation of the manufacturer's sterilisation 
procedures or information on the reconditioning and sterilisation 
procedures which have to be conducted by the investigation site;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the demonstration of the safety, quality and 
usefulness of any components of animal or human origin or of substances,
 which may be considered medicinal products in accordance with 
Directive&nbsp;2001/83/EC.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States shall refuse the authorisation of the clinical investigation if:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the application dossier submitted pursuant to Article&nbsp;70(1) remains incomplete;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the device or the submitted documents, 
especially the investigation plan and the investigator's brochure, do 
not correspond to the state of scientific knowledge, and the clinical 
investigation, in particular, is not suitable for providing evidence for
 the safety, performance characteristics or benefit of the device on 
subjects or patients,</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the requirements of Article&nbsp;62 are not met, or</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">any assessment under paragraph&nbsp;3 is negative.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">Member&nbsp;States shall provide for an appeal procedure in respect of a refusal pursuant to the first subparagraph.</p>