---
sidebar_position: 74
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Substantial modifications to clinical investigations</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;If a sponsor intends to introduce 
modifications to a clinical investigation that are likely to have a 
substantial impact on the safety, health or rights of the subjects or on
 the robustness or reliability of the clinical data generated by the 
investigation, it shall notify, within one week, by means of the 
electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;73 the 
Member&nbsp;State(s) in which the clinical investigation is being or is 
to be conducted of the reasons for and the nature of those 
modifications. The sponsor shall include an updated version of the 
relevant documentation referred to in Chapter&nbsp;II of Annex&nbsp;XV 
as part of the notification. Changes to the relevant documentation shall
 be clearly identifiable.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Member&nbsp;State shall assess any 
substantial modification to the clinical investigation in accordance 
with the procedure laid down in Article&nbsp;71.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The sponsor may implement the 
modifications referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 at the earliest 
38&nbsp;days after the notification referred to in that paragraph, 
unless:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the Member&nbsp;State in which the clinical 
investigation is being or is to be conducted has notified the sponsor of
 its refusal based on the grounds referred to in Article&nbsp;71(4) or 
on considerations of public health, subject and user safety or health, 
of public policy, or</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">an ethics committee in that Member&nbsp;State 
has issued a negative opinion in relation to the substantial 
modification to the clinical investigation, which, in accordance with 
national law, is valid for that entire Member&nbsp;State.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Member&nbsp;State(s) concerned may 
extend the period referred to in paragraph&nbsp;3 by a further seven 
days, for the purpose of consulting with experts.</p>