---
sidebar_position: 71
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Conduct of a clinical investigation</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;The sponsor and the investigator shall 
ensure that the clinical investigation is conducted in accordance with 
the approved clinical investigation plan.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;In order to verify that the rights, 
safety and well-being of subjects are protected, that the reported data 
are reliable and robust, and that the conduct of the clinical 
investigation is in compliance with the requirements of this Regulation,
 the sponsor shall ensure adequate monitoring of the conduct of a 
clinical investigation. The extent and nature of the monitoring shall be
 determined by the sponsor on the basis of an assessment that takes into
 consideration all characteristics of the clinical investigation 
including the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the objective and methodology of the clinical investigation; and</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the degree of deviation of the intervention from normal clinical practice.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;All clinical investigation information 
shall be recorded, processed, handled, and stored by the sponsor or 
investigator, as applicable, in such a way that it can be accurately 
reported, interpreted and verified while the confidentiality of records 
and the personal data of the subjects remain protected in accordance 
with the applicable law on personal data protection.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Appropriate technical and 
organisational measures shall be implemented to protect information and 
personal data processed against unauthorised or unlawful access, 
disclosure, dissemination, alteration, or destruction or accidental 
loss, in particular where the processing involves transmission over a 
network.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States shall inspect, at an
 appropriate level, investigation site(s) to check that clinical 
investigations are conducted in accordance with the requirements of this
 Regulation and with the approved investigation plan.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The sponsor shall establish a procedure
 for emergency situations which enables the immediate identification 
and, where necessary, an immediate recall of the devices used in the 
investigation.</p>