
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:language" content="en">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:version" content="current">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:docusaurus_tag" content="docs-default-current">
        ---
sidebar_position: 85
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Periodic safety update report</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Manufacturers of class IIa, class IIb 
and class III devices shall prepare a periodic safety update report 
(‘PSUR’) for each device and where relevant for each category or group 
of devices summarising the results and conclusions of the analyses of 
the post-market surveillance data gathered as a result of the 
post-market surveillance plan referred to in Article&nbsp;84 together 
with a rationale and description of any preventive and corrective 
actions taken. Throughout the lifetime of the device concerned, that 
PSUR shall set out:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the conclusions of the benefit-risk determination;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the main findings of the PMCF; and</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the volume of sales of the device and an 
estimate evaluation of the size and other characteristics of the 
population using the device and, where practicable, the usage frequency 
of the device.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">Manufacturers of class IIb and class III devices 
shall update the PSUR at least annually. That PSUR shall, except in the 
case of custom-made devices, be part of the technical documentation as 
specified in Annexes&nbsp;II and&nbsp;III.</p>
   <p class="norm">Manufacturers of class IIa devices shall update the 
PSUR when necessary and at least every two years. That PSUR shall, 
except in the case of custom-made devices, be part of the technical 
documentation as specified in Annexes&nbsp;II and&nbsp;III.</p>
   <p class="norm">For custom-made devices, the PSUR shall be part of the documentation referred to in Section&nbsp;2 of Annex&nbsp;XIII.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;For class III devices or implantable 
devices, manufacturers shall submit PSURs by means of the electronic 
system referred to in Article&nbsp;92 to the notified body involved in 
the conformity assessment in accordance with Article&nbsp;52. The 
notified body shall review the report and add its evaluation to that 
electronic system with details of any action taken. Such PSURs and the 
evaluation by the notified body shall be made available to competent 
authorities through that electronic system.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;For devices other than those referred 
to in paragraph&nbsp;2, manufacturers shall make PSURs available to the 
notified body involved in the conformity assessment and, upon request, 
to competent authorities.</p>
   <p>
      
      
   </p>
   