---
sidebar_position: 16
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Single-use devices and their reprocessing</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Reprocessing and further use of 
single-use devices may only take place where permitted by national law 
and only in accordance with this Article.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any natural or legal person who 
reprocesses a single-use device to make it suitable for further use 
within the Union shall be considered to be the manufacturer of the 
reprocessed device and shall assume the obligations incumbent on 
manufacturers laid down in this Regulation, which include obligations 
relating to the traceability of the reprocessed device in accordance 
with Chapter III of this Regulation. The reprocessor of the device shall
 be considered to be a producer for the purpose of [Article&nbsp;3](../scope and definitionsArticle 3 - Amendment of certain definitions.md)(1) of 
Directive&nbsp;85/374/EEC.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;By way of derogation from 
paragraph&nbsp;2, as regards single-use devices that are reprocessed and
 used within a health institution, Member&nbsp;States may decide not to 
apply all of the rules relating to manufacturers' obligations laid down 
in this Regulation provided that they ensure that:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the safety and performance of the reprocessed 
device is equivalent to that of the original device and the requirements
 in points (a), (b), (d), (e), (f), (g) and (h) of [Article&nbsp;5](../making available on the market and putting  into service of devices obligations of economic operators  reprocessing ce marking free movementArticle 5 - Placing on the market and putting into service.md)(5) are
 complied with;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the reprocessing is performed in accordance with CS detailing the requirements concerning:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">risk management, including the analysis
 of the construction and material, related properties of the device 
(reverse engineering) and procedures to detect changes in the design of 
the original device as well as of its planned application after 
reprocessing,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">the validation of procedures for the entire process, including cleaning steps,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">the product release and performance testing,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">the quality management system,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">the reporting of incidents involving devices that have been reprocessed, and</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">the traceability of reprocessed devices.</div>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">Member&nbsp;States shall encourage, and may require, 
health institutions to provide information to patients on the use of 
reprocessed devices within the health institution and, where 
appropriate, any other relevant information on the reprocessed devices 
that patients are treated with.</p>
   <p class="norm">Member&nbsp;States shall notify the Commission and 
the other Member&nbsp;States of the national provisions introduced 
pursuant to this paragraph&nbsp;and the grounds for introducing them. 
The Commission shall keep the information publicly available.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Member&nbsp;States may choose to apply 
the provisions referred to in paragraph&nbsp;3 also as regards 
single-use devices that are reprocessed by an external reprocessor at 
the request of a health institution, provided that the reprocessed 
device in its entirety is returned to that health institution and the 
external reprocessor complies with the requirements referred to in 
points (a) and (b) of paragraph&nbsp;3.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall adopt, in 
accordance with [Article&nbsp;9](../making available on the market and putting  into service of devices obligations of economic operators  reprocessing ce marking free movementArticle 9 - Common specifications.md)(1), the necessary CS referred to in 
point&nbsp;(b) of paragraph&nbsp;3 by 26 May 2020. Those CS shall be 
consistent with the latest scientific evidence and shall address the 
application of the general requirements on safety and performance laid 
down in in this Regulation. In the event that those CS are not adopted 
by 26 May 2020, reprocessing shall be performed in accordance with any 
relevant harmonised standards and national provisions that cover the 
aspects outlined in point&nbsp;(b) of paragraph&nbsp;3. Compliance with 
CS or, in the absence of CS, with any relevant harmonised standards and 
national provisions, shall be certified by a notified body.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Only single-use devices that have been 
placed on the market in accordance with this Regulation, or prior to 
26&nbsp;May 2020 in accordance with Directive&nbsp;93/42/EEC, may be 
reprocessed.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;Only reprocessing of single-use devices
 that is considered safe according to the latest scientific evidence may
 be carried out.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The name and address of the legal or 
natural person referred to in paragraph&nbsp;2 and the other relevant 
information referred to in Section&nbsp;23 of Annex&nbsp;I shall be 
indicated on the label and, where applicable, in the instructions for 
use of the reprocessed device.</p>
   <p class="norm">The name and address of the manufacturer of the 
original single-use device shall no longer appear on the label, but 
shall be mentioned in the instructions for use of the reprocessed 
device.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;A Member&nbsp;State that permits 
reprocessing of single-use devices may maintain or introduce national 
provisions that are stricter than those laid down in this Regulation and
 which restrict or prohibit, within its territory, the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the reprocessing of single-use devices and the 
transfer of single-use devices to another Member&nbsp;State or to a 
third country with a view to their reprocessing;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the making available or further use of reprocessed single-use devices.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">Member&nbsp;States shall notify the Commission and 
the other Member&nbsp;States of those national provisions. The 
Commission shall make such information publicly available.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall by 27 May 2024 
draw up a report on the operation of this Article&nbsp;and submit it to 
the European Parliament and to the Council. On the basis of that report,
 the Commission shall, if appropriate, make proposals for amendments to 
this Regulation.</p>