
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:language" content="en">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:version" content="current">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:docusaurus_tag" content="docs-default-current">
        ---
sidebar_position: 12
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">General obligations of importers</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Importers shall place on the Union market only devices that are in conformity with this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;In order to place a device on the market, importers shall verify that:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the device has been CE marked and that the EU declaration of conformity of the device has been drawn up;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">a manufacturer is identified and that an 
authorised representative in accordance with Article&nbsp;11 has been 
designated by the manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the device is labelled in accordance with this Regulation and accompanied by the required instructions for use;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">where applicable, a UDI has been assigned by the manufacturer in accordance with Article&nbsp;27.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">Where an importer considers or has reason to believe 
that a device is not in conformity with the requirements of this 
Regulation, it shall not place the device on the market until it has 
been brought into conformity and shall inform the manufacturer and the 
manufacturer's authorised representative. Where the importer considers 
or has reason to believe that the device presents a serious risk or is a
 falsified device, it shall also inform the competent authority of the 
Member&nbsp;State in which the importer is established.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Importers shall indicate on the device 
or on its packaging or in a document accompanying the device their name,
 registered trade name or registered trade mark, their registered place 
of business and the address at which they can be contacted, so that 
their location can be established. They shall ensure that any additional
 label does not obscure any information on the label provided by the 
manufacturer.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Importers shall verify that the device 
is registered in the electronic system in accordance with 
Article&nbsp;29. Importers shall add their details to the registration 
in accordance with Article&nbsp;31.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Importers shall ensure that, while a 
device is under their responsibility, storage or transport conditions do
 not jeopardise its compliance with the general safety and performance 
requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;I and shall comply with the 
conditions set by the manufacturer, where available.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Importers shall keep a register of 
complaints, of non-conforming devices and of recalls and withdrawals, 
and provide the manufacturer, authorised representative and distributors
 with any information requested by them, in order to allow them to 
investigate complaints.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;Importers who consider or have reason 
to believe that a device which they have placed on the market is not in 
conformity with this Regulation shall immediately inform the 
manufacturer and its authorised representative. Importers shall 
co-operate with the manufacturer, the manufacturer's authorised 
representative and the competent authorities to ensure that the 
necessary corrective action to bring that device into conformity, to 
withdraw or recall it is taken. Where the device presents a serious 
risk, they shall also immediately inform the competent authorities of 
the Member&nbsp;States in which they made the device available and, if 
applicable, the notified body that issued a certificate in accordance 
with Article&nbsp;56 for the device in question, giving details, in 
particular, of the non-compliance and of any corrective action taken.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;Importers who have received complaints 
or reports from healthcare professionals, patients or users about 
suspected incidents related to a device which they have placed on the 
market shall immediately forward this information to the manufacturer 
and its authorised representative.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;Importers shall, for the period 
referred to in Article&nbsp;10(8), keep a copy of the 
EU&nbsp;declaration of conformity and, if applicable, a copy of any 
relevant certificate, including any amendments and supplements, issued 
in accordance with Article&nbsp;56.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;Importers shall cooperate with 
competent authorities, at the latters' request, on any action taken to 
eliminate or, if that is not possible, mitigate the risks posed by 
devices which they have placed on the market. Importers, upon request by
 a competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State in which the importer 
has its registered place of business, shall provide samples of the 
device free of charge or, where that is impracticable, grant access to 
the device.</p>