---
sidebar_position: 21
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Systems and procedure packs</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Natural or legal persons shall draw up a
 statement if they combine devices bearing a CE&nbsp;marking with the 
following other devices or products, in a manner that is compatible with
 the intended purpose of the devices or other products and within the 
limits of use specified by their manufacturers, in order to place them 
on the market as a system or procedure pack:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">other devices bearing the CE marking;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">
            <span class="italics">in vitro</span> diagnostic medical devices bearing the CE marking in conformity with Regulation&nbsp;(EU)&nbsp;2017/746;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">other products which are in conformity with 
legislation that applies to those products only where they are used 
within a medical procedure or their presence in the system or procedure 
pack is otherwise justified.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;In the statement made pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;1, the natural or legal person concerned shall declare that:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">they verified the mutual compatibility of the 
devices and, if applicable other products, in accordance with the 
manufacturers' instructions and have carried out their activities in 
accordance with those instructions;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">they packaged the system or procedure pack and 
supplied relevant information to users incorporating the information to 
be supplied by the manufacturers of the devices or other products which 
have been put together;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the activity of combining devices and, if 
applicable, other products as a system or procedure pack was subject to 
appropriate methods of internal monitoring, verification and validation.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any natural or legal person who 
sterilises systems or procedure packs referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 
for the purpose of placing them on the market shall, at their choice, 
apply one of the procedures set out in Annex&nbsp;IX or the procedure 
set out in Part A of Annex&nbsp;XI. The application of those procedures 
and the involvement of the notified body shall be limited to the aspects
 of the procedure relating to ensuring sterility until the sterile 
packaging is opened or damaged. The natural or legal person shall draw 
up a statement declaring that sterilisation has been carried out in 
accordance with the manufacturer's instructions.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the system or procedure pack 
incorporates devices which do not bear the CE&nbsp;marking or where the 
chosen combination of devices is not compatible in view of their 
original intended purpose, or where the sterilisation has not been 
carried out in accordance with the manufacturer's instructions, the 
system or procedure pack shall be treated as a device in its own right 
and shall be subject to the relevant conformity assessment procedure 
pursuant to Article&nbsp;52. The natural or legal person shall assume 
the obligations incumbent on manufacturers.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The systems or procedure packs referred
 to in paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article&nbsp;shall not themselves bear 
an additional CE marking but they shall bear the name, registered trade 
name or registered trade mark of the person referred to in paragraphs 1 
and 3 of this Article&nbsp;as well as the address at which that person 
can be contacted, so that the person's location can be established. 
Systems or procedure packs shall be accompanied by the information 
referred to in Section&nbsp;23 of Annex&nbsp;I. The statement referred 
to in paragraph&nbsp;2 of this Article&nbsp;shall be kept at the 
disposal of the competent authorities, after the system or procedure 
pack has been put together, for the period that is applicable under 
Article&nbsp;10(8) to the devices that have been combined. Where those 
periods differ, the longest period shall apply.</p>