---
sidebar_position: 13
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">General obligations of distributors</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;When making a device available on the 
market, distributors shall, in the context of their activities, act with
 due care in relation to the requirements applicable.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Before making a device available on the
 market, distributors shall verify that all of the following 
requirements are met:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the device has been CE marked and that the EU declaration of conformity of the device has been drawn up;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the device is accompanied by the information to be supplied by the manufacturer in accordance with Article&nbsp;10(11);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">for imported devices, the importer has complied with the requirements set out in Article&nbsp;13(3);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">that, where applicable, a UDI has been assigned by the manufacturer.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">In order to meet the requirements referred to in 
points (a), (b) and (d) of the first subparagraph&nbsp;the distributor 
may apply a sampling method that is representative of the devices 
supplied by that distributor.</p>
   <p class="norm">Where a distributor considers or has reason to 
believe that a device is not in conformity with the requirements of this
 Regulation, it shall not make the device available on the market until 
it has been brought into conformity, and shall inform the manufacturer 
and, where applicable, the manufacturer's authorised representative, and
 the importer. Where the distributor considers or has reason to believe 
that the device presents a serious risk or is a falsified device, it 
shall also inform the competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State in 
which it is established.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Distributors shall ensure that, while 
the device is under their responsibility, storage or transport 
conditions comply with the conditions set by the manufacturer.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Distributors that consider or have 
reason to believe that a device which they have made available on the 
market is not in conformity with this Regulation shall immediately 
inform the manufacturer and, where applicable, the manufacturer's 
authorised representative and the importer. Distributors shall 
co-operate with the manufacturer and, where applicable, the 
manufacturer's authorised representative, and the importer, and with 
competent authorities to ensure that the necessary corrective action to 
bring that device into conformity, to withdraw or to recall it, as 
appropriate, is taken. Where the distributor considers or has reason to 
believe that the device presents a serious risk, it shall also 
immediately inform the competent authorities of the Member&nbsp;States 
in which it made the device available, giving details, in particular, of
 the non-compliance and of any corrective action taken.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Distributors that have received 
complaints or reports from healthcare professionals, patients or users 
about suspected incidents related to a device they have made available, 
shall immediately forward this information to the manufacturer and, 
where applicable, the manufacturer's authorised representative, and the 
importer. They shall keep a register of complaints, of non-conforming 
devices and of recalls and withdrawals, and keep the manufacturer and, 
where available, the authorised representative and the importer informed
 of such monitoring and provide them with any information upon their 
request.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;Distributors shall, upon request by a 
competent authority, provide it with all the information and 
documentation that is at their disposal and is necessary to demonstrate 
the conformity of a device.</p>
   <p class="norm">Distributors shall be considered to have fulfilled 
the obligation referred to in the first subparagraph&nbsp;when the 
manufacturer or, where applicable, the authorised representative for the
 device in question provides the required information. Distributors 
shall cooperate with competent authorities, at their request, on any 
action taken to eliminate the risks posed by devices which they have 
made available on the market. Distributors, upon request by a competent 
authority, shall provide free samples of the device or, where that is 
impracticable, grant access to the device.</p>