---
sidebar_position: 4
---
        <h3>making available on the market and putting  into service of devices obligations of economic operators  reprocessing ce marking free movement</h3>
<h1>Placing on the market and putting into service</h1>
<h2>Article 5</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Placing on the market and putting into service</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;A device may be placed on the market or
 put into service only if it complies with this Regulation when duly 
supplied and properly installed, maintained and used in accordance with 
its intended purpose.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;A device shall meet the general safety 
and performance requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;I which apply to it, 
taking into account its intended purpose.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Demonstration of conformity with the 
general safety and performance requirements shall include a clinical 
evaluation in accordance with Article&nbsp;61.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Devices that are manufactured and used 
within health institutions shall be considered as having been put into 
service.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;With the exception of the relevant 
general safety and performance requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;I, the
 requirements of this Regulation shall not apply to devices, 
manufactured and used only within health institutions established in the
 Union, provided that all of the following conditions are met:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the devices are not transferred to another legal entity,</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">manufacture and use of the devices occur under appropriate quality management systems,</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the health institution justifies in its 
documentation that the target patient group's specific needs cannot be 
met, or cannot be met at the appropriate level of performance by an 
equivalent device available on the market,</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the health institution provides information 
upon request on the use of such devices to its competent authority, 
which shall include a justification of their manufacturing, modification
 and use;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the health institution draws up a declaration which it shall make publicly available, including:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(i)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">the name and address of the manufacturing health institution;</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(ii)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">the details necessary to identify the devices;</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(iii)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">a declaration that the devices meet the 
general safety and performance requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;I to 
this Regulation and, where applicable, information on which requirements
 are not fully met with a reasoned justification therefor,</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the health institution draws up documentation 
that makes it possible to have an understanding of the manufacturing 
facility, the manufacturing process, the design and performance data of 
the devices, including the intended purpose, and that is sufficiently 
detailed to enable the competent authority to ascertain that the general
 safety and performance requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;I to this 
Regulation are met;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the health institution takes all necessary 
measures to ensure that all devices are manufactured in accordance with 
the documentation referred to in point&nbsp;(f), and</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(h)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the health institution reviews experience gained from clinical use of the devices and takes all necessary corrective actions.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">Member&nbsp;States may require that such health 
institutions submit to the competent authority any further relevant 
information about such devices which have been manufactured and used on 
their territory. Member&nbsp;States shall retain the right to restrict 
the manufacture and the use of any specific type of such devices and 
shall be permitted access to inspect the activities of the health 
institutions.</p>
   <p class="norm">This paragraph&nbsp;shall not apply to devices that are manufactured on an industrial scale.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;In order to ensure the uniform 
application of Annex&nbsp;I, the Commission may adopt implementing acts 
to the extent necessary to resolve issues of divergent interpretation 
and of practical application. Those implementing acts shall be adopted 
in accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>