
---
sidebar_position: 60
---
        <h3>clinical-evaluation-and-clinical-investigations</h3>
<h1>Clinical-evaluation</h1>
<h2>Article 61</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Clinical evaluation</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Confirmation of conformity with 
relevant general safety and performance requirements set out in 
Annex&nbsp;I under the normal conditions of the intended use of the 
device, and the evaluation of the undesirable side-effects and of the 
acceptability of the benefit-risk- ratio referred to in Sections 1 and 8
 of Annex&nbsp;I, shall be based on clinical data providing sufficient 
clinical evidence, including where applicable relevant data as referred 
to in Annex&nbsp;III.</p>
   <p class="norm">The manufacturer shall specify and justify the level 
of clinical evidence necessary to demonstrate conformity with the 
relevant general safety and performance requirements. That level of 
clinical evidence shall be appropriate in view of the characteristics of
 the device and its intended purpose.</p>
   <p class="norm">To that end, manufacturers shall plan, conduct and 
document a clinical evaluation in accordance with this Article&nbsp;and 
Part A of Annex&nbsp;XIV.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;For all class III devices and for the 
class IIb devices referred to in point&nbsp;(b) of Article&nbsp;54(1), 
the manufacturer may, prior to its clinical evaluation and/or 
investigation, consult an expert panel as referred to in 
Article&nbsp;106, with the aim of reviewing the manufacturer's intended 
clinical development strategy and proposals for clinical investigation. 
The manufacturer shall give due consideration to the views expressed by 
the expert panel. Such consideration shall be documented in the clinical
 evaluation report referred to in paragraph&nbsp;12 of this Article.</p>
   <p class="norm">The manufacturer may not invoke any rights to the 
views expressed by the expert panel with regard to any future conformity
 assessment procedure.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;A clinical evaluation shall follow a defined and methodologically sound procedure based on the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">a critical evaluation of the relevant 
scientific literature currently available relating to the safety, 
performance, design characteristics and intended purpose of the device, 
where the following conditions are satisfied:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">it is demonstrated that the device 
subject to clinical evaluation for the intended purpose is equivalent to
 the device to which the data relate, in accordance with Section&nbsp;3 
of Annex&nbsp;XIV, and</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">the data adequately demonstrate compliance with the relevant general safety and performance requirements;</div>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">a critical evaluation of the results of all 
available clinical investigations, taking duly into consideration 
whether the investigations were performed under Articles&nbsp;62 
to&nbsp;80, any acts adopted pursuant to Article&nbsp;81, and 
Annex&nbsp;XV; and</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">a consideration of currently available alternative treatment options for that purpose, if any.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;In the case of implantable devices and class III devices, clinical investigations shall be performed, except if:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the device has been designed by modifications of a device already marketed by the same manufacturer,</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the modified device has been demonstrated by 
the manufacturer to be equivalent to the marketed device, in accordance 
with Section&nbsp;3 of Annex&nbsp;XIV and this demonstration has been 
endorsed by the notified body, and</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the clinical evaluation of the marketed 
device is sufficient to demonstrate conformity of the modified device 
with the relevant safety and performance requirements.</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">In this case, the notified body shall check that the 
PMCF plan is appropriate and includes post market studies to demonstrate
 the safety and performance of the device.</p>
   <p class="norm">In addition, clinical investigations need not be performed in the cases referred to in paragraph&nbsp;6.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;A manufacturer of a device demonstrated
 to be equivalent to an already marketed device not manufactured by him,
 may also rely on paragraph&nbsp;4 in order not to perform a clinical 
investigation provided that the following conditions are fulfilled in 
addition to what is required in that paragraph:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the two manufacturers have a contract in 
place that explicitly allows the manufacturer of the second device full 
access to the technical documentation on an ongoing basis, and</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the original clinical evaluation has been performed in compliance with the requirements of this Regulation,</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">and the manufacturer of the second device provides clear evidence thereof to the notified body.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The requirement to perform clinical 
investigations pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;4 shall not apply to 
implantable devices and class III devices:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">which have been lawfully placed on the market 
or put into service in accordance with Directive&nbsp;90/385/EEC or 
Directive&nbsp;93/42/EEC and for which the clinical evaluation:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">is based on sufficient clinical data, and</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">is in compliance with the relevant 
product-specific CS for the clinical evaluation of that kind of device, 
where such a CS is available; or</div>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">that are sutures, staples, dental fillings, 
dental braces, tooth crowns, screws, wedges, plates, wires, pins, clips 
or connectors for which the clinical evaluation is based on sufficient 
clinical data and is in compliance with the relevant product-specific 
CS, where such a CS is available.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;Cases in which paragraph&nbsp;4 is not 
applied by virtue of paragraph&nbsp;6 shall be justified in the clinical
 evaluation report by the manufacturer and in the clinical evaluation 
assessment report by the notified body.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where justified in view of 
well-established technologies, similar to those used in the exempted 
devices listed in point&nbsp;(b) of paragraph&nbsp;6 of this Article, 
being used in other devices, or where justified in order to protect the 
health and safety of patients, users or other persons or other aspects 
of public health, the Commission is empowered to adopt delegated acts in
 accordance with Article&nbsp;115 to amend the list of exempted devices 
referred to in the second subparagraph&nbsp;of Article&nbsp;52(4) and in
 point&nbsp;(b) of paragraph&nbsp;6 of this Article, by adding other 
types of implantable or class III devices to that list or removing 
devices therefrom.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;In the case of the products without an 
intended medical purpose listed in Annex&nbsp;XVI, the requirement to 
demonstrate a clinical benefit in accordance with this Chapter and 
Annexes&nbsp;XIV and XV shall be understood as a requirement to 
demonstrate the performance of the device. Clinical evaluations of those
 products shall be based on relevant data concerning safety, including 
data from post-market surveillance, PMCF, and, where applicable, 
specific clinical investigation. Clinical investigations shall be 
performed for those products unless reliance on existing clinical data 
from an analogous medical device is duly justified.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;Without prejudice to paragraph&nbsp;4,
 where the demonstration of conformity with general safety and 
performance requirements based on clinical data is not deemed 
appropriate, adequate justification for any such exception shall be 
given based on the results of the manufacturer's risk management and on 
consideration of the specifics of the interaction between the device and
 the human body, the clinical performance intended and the claims of the
 manufacturer. In such a case, the manufacturer shall duly substantiate 
in the technical documentation referred to in Annex&nbsp;II why it 
considers a demonstration of conformity with general safety and 
performance requirements that is based on the results of non-clinical 
testing methods alone, including performance evaluation, bench testing 
and pre-clinical evaluation, to be adequate.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;The clinical evaluation and its 
documentation shall be updated throughout the life cycle of the device 
concerned with clinical data obtained from the implementation of the 
manufacturer's PMCF plan in accordance with Part B of Annex&nbsp;XIV and
 the post-market surveillance plan referred to in Article&nbsp;84.</p>
   <p class="norm">For class III devices and implantable devices, the 
PMCF evaluation report and, if indicated, the summary of safety and 
clinical performance referred to in Article&nbsp;32 shall be updated at 
least annually with such data.</p>
   <p class="norm">12.&nbsp;&nbsp;The clinical evaluation, its results 
and the clinical evidence derived from it shall be documented in a 
clinical evaluation report as referred to in Section&nbsp;4 of 
Annex&nbsp;XIV, which, except for custom-made devices, shall be part of 
the technical documentation referred to in Annex&nbsp;II relating to the
 device concerned.</p>
   <p class="norm">13.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where necessary to ensure the uniform 
application of Annex&nbsp;XIV, the Commission may, having due regard to 
technical and scientific progress, adopt implementing acts to the extent
 necessary to resolve issues of divergent interpretation and of 
practical application. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>