
---
sidebar_position: 61
---
        <h3>clinical-evaluation-and-clinical-investigations</h3>
<h1>General-requirements-regarding-clinical-investigations-conducted-to-demonstrate-conformity-of-devices</h1>
<h2>Article 62</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">General requirements regarding clinical investigations conducted to demonstrate conformity of devices</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Clinical investigations shall be 
designed, authorised, conducted, recorded and reported in accordance 
with the provisions of this Article&nbsp;and of Articles&nbsp;63 to 80, 
the acts adopted pursuant to Article&nbsp;81, and Annex&nbsp;XV, where 
carried out as part of the clinical evaluation for conformity assessment
 purposes, for one or more of the following purposes:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to establish and verify that, under normal 
conditions of use, a device is designed, manufactured and packaged in 
such a way that it is suitable for one or more of the specific purposes 
listed in point&nbsp;(1) of Article&nbsp;2, and achieves the performance
 intended as specified by its manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to establish and verify the clinical benefits of a device as specified by its manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to establish and verify the clinical safety of 
the device and to determine any undesirable side-effects, under normal 
conditions of use of the device, and assess whether they constitute 
acceptable risks when weighed against the benefits to be achieved by the
 device.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the sponsor of a clinical 
investigation is not established in the Union, that sponsor shall ensure
 that a natural or legal person is established in the Union as its legal
 representative. Such legal representative shall be responsible for 
ensuring compliance with the sponsor's obligations pursuant to this 
Regulation, and shall be the addressee for all communications with the 
sponsor provided for in this Regulation. Any communication with that 
legal representative shall be deemed to be a communication with the 
sponsor.</p>
   <p class="norm">Member&nbsp;States may choose not to apply the first 
subparagraph&nbsp;to clinical investigations to be conducted solely on 
their territory, or on their territory and the territory of a third 
country, provided that they ensure that the sponsor establishes at least
 a contact person on their territory in respect of that clinical 
investigation who shall be the addressee for all communications with the
 sponsor provided for in this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Clinical investigations shall be 
designed and conducted in such a way that the rights, safety, dignity 
and well-being of the subjects participating in a clinical investigation
 are protected and prevail over all other interests and the clinical 
data generated are scientifically valid, reliable and robust.</p>
   <p class="norm">Clinical investigations shall be subject to 
scientific and ethical review. The ethical review shall be performed by 
an ethics committee in accordance with national law. Member&nbsp;States 
shall ensure that the procedures for review by ethics committees are 
compatible with the procedures set out in this Regulation for the 
assessment of the application for authorisation of a clinical 
investigation. At least one lay person shall participate in the ethical 
review.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;A clinical investigation as referred to
 in paragraph&nbsp;1 may be conducted only where all of the following 
conditions are met:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the clinical investigation is the subject of an
 authorisation by the Member&nbsp;State(s) in which the clinical 
investigation is to be conducted, in accordance with this Regulation, 
unless otherwise stated;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">an ethics committee, set up in accordance with 
national law, has not issued a negative opinion in relation to the 
clinical investigation, which is valid for that entire Member&nbsp;State
 under its national law;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the sponsor, or its legal representative or a contact person pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;2, is established in the Union;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">vulnerable populations and subjects are appropriately protected in accordance with Articles&nbsp;64 to 68;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the anticipated benefits to the subjects or to 
public health justify the foreseeable risks and inconveniences and 
compliance with this condition is constantly monitored;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the subject or, where the subject is not able 
to give informed consent, his or her legally designated representative 
has given informed consent in accordance with Article&nbsp;63;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the subject or, where the subject is not able 
to give informed consent, his or her legally designated representative, 
has been provided with the contact details of an entity where further 
information can be received in case of need;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(h)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the rights of the subject to physical and 
mental integrity, to privacy and to the protection of the data 
concerning him or her in accordance with Directive&nbsp;95/46/EC are 
safeguarded;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(i)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the clinical investigation has been designed to
 involve as little pain, discomfort, fear and any other foreseeable risk
 as possible for the subjects, and both the risk threshold and the 
degree of distress are specifically defined in the clinical 
investigation plan and constantly monitored;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(j)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the medical care provided to the subjects is 
the responsibility of an appropriately qualified medical doctor or, 
where appropriate, a qualified dental practitioner or any other person 
entitled by national law to provide the relevant patient care under 
clinical investigation conditions;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(k)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">no undue influence, including that of a 
financial nature, is exerted on the subject, or, where applicable, on 
his or her legally designated representatives, to participate in the 
clinical investigation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(l)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the investigational device(s) in question 
conform(s) to the applicable general safety and performance requirements
 set out in Annex&nbsp;I apart from the aspects covered by the clinical 
investigation and that, with regard to those aspects, every precaution 
has been taken to protect the health and safety of the subjects. This 
includes, where appropriate, technical and biological safety testing and
 pre-clinical evaluation, as well as provisions in the field of 
occupational safety and accident prevention, taking into consideration 
the state of the art;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(m)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">the requirements of Annex&nbsp;XV are fulfilled.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any subject, or, where the subject is 
not able to give informed consent, his or her legally designated 
representative, may, without any resulting detriment and without having 
to provide any justification, withdraw from the clinical investigation 
at any time by revoking his or her informed consent. Without prejudice 
to Directive&nbsp;95/46/EC, the withdrawal of the informed consent shall
 not affect the activities already carried out and the use of data 
obtained based on informed consent before its withdrawal.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The investigator shall be a person 
exercising a profession which is recognised in the Member&nbsp;State 
concerned as qualifying for the role of investigator on account of 
having the necessary scientific knowledge and experience in patient 
care. Other personnel involved in conducting a clinical investigation 
shall be suitably qualified, by education, training or experience in the
 relevant medical field and in clinical research methodology, to perform
 their tasks.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;The facilities where the clinical 
investigation is to be conducted shall be suitable for the clinical 
investigation and shall be similar to the facilities where the device is
 intended to be used.</p>