---
sidebar_position: 0
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Subject matter and scope</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;This Regulation lays down rules 
concerning the placing on the market, making available on the market or 
putting into service of medical devices for human use and accessories 
for such devices in the Union. This Regulation also applies to clinical 
investigations concerning such medical devices and accessories conducted
 in the Union.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;This Regulation shall also apply, as 
from the date of application of common specifications adopted pursuant 
to Article&nbsp;9, to the groups of products without an intended medical
 purpose that are listed in Annex&nbsp;XVI, taking into account the 
state of the art, and in particular existing harmonised standards for 
analogous devices with a medical purpose, based on similar technology. 
The common specifications for each of the groups of products listed in 
Annex&nbsp;XVI shall address, at least, application of risk management 
as set out in Annex&nbsp;I for the group of products in question and, 
where necessary, clinical evaluation regarding safety.</p>
   <p class="norm">The necessary common specifications shall be adopted 
by 26 May 2020. They shall apply as from six months after the date of 
their entry into force or from 26 May 2020, whichever is the latest.</p>
   <p class="norm">Notwithstanding Article&nbsp;122, Member&nbsp;States'
 measures regarding the qualification of the products covered by 
Annex&nbsp;XVI as medical devices pursuant to Directive&nbsp;93/42/EEC 
shall remain valid until the date of application, as referred to in the 
first subparagraph, of the relevant common specifications for that group
 of products.</p>
   <p class="norm">This Regulation also applies to clinical 
investigations conducted in the Union concerning the products referred 
to in the first subparagraph.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Devices with both a medical and a 
non-medical intended purpose shall fulfil cumulatively the requirements 
applicable to devices with an intended medical purpose and those 
applicable to devices without an intended medical purpose.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;For the purposes of this Regulation, 
medical devices, accessories for medical devices, and products listed in
 Annex&nbsp;XVI to which this Regulation applies pursuant to 
paragraph&nbsp;2 shall hereinafter be referred to as ‘devices’.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where justified on account of the 
similarity between a device with an intended medical purpose placed on 
the market and a product without an intended medical purpose in respect 
of their characteristics and risks, the Commission is empowered to adopt
 delegated acts in accordance with Article&nbsp;115 to amend the list in
 Annex&nbsp;XVI, by adding new groups of products, in order to protect 
the health and safety of users or other persons or other aspects of 
public health.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;This Regulation does not apply to:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">
            <span class="italics">in vitro</span> diagnostic medical devices covered by Regulation&nbsp;(EU)&nbsp;2017/746;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">medicinal products as defined in point&nbsp;2 
of Article&nbsp;1 of Directive&nbsp;2001/83/EC. In deciding whether a 
product falls under Directive&nbsp;2001/83/EC or under this Regulation, 
particular account shall be taken of the principal mode of action of the
 product;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">advanced therapy medicinal products covered by Regulation&nbsp;(EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;1394/2007;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">human blood, blood products, plasma or blood 
cells of human origin or devices which incorporate, when placed on the 
market or put into service, such blood products, plasma or cells, except
 for devices referred to in paragraph&nbsp;8 of this Article;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">cosmetic products covered by Regulation&nbsp;(EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;1223/2009;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">transplants, tissues or cells of animal origin,
 or their derivatives, or products containing or consisting of them; 
however this Regulation does apply to devices manufactured utilising 
tissues or cells of animal origin, or their derivatives, which are 
non-viable or are rendered non-viable;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">transplants, tissues or cells of human origin, 
or their derivatives, covered by Directive&nbsp;2004/23/EC, or products 
containing or consisting of them; however this Regulation does apply to 
devices manufactured utilising derivatives of tissues or cells of human 
origin which are non-viable or are rendered non-viable;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(h)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">products, other than those referred to in 
points (d), (f) and (g), that contain or consist of viable biological 
material or viable organisms, including living micro-organisms, 
bacteria, fungi or viruses in order to achieve or support the intended 
purpose of the product;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(i)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">food covered by Regulation (EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;178/2002.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any device which, when placed on the market or put into service, incorporates as an integral part an <span class="italics">in vitro</span>
 diagnostic medical device as defined in point&nbsp;2 of Article&nbsp;2 
of Regulation&nbsp;(EU)&nbsp;2017/746, shall be governed by this 
Regulation. The requirements of Regulation&nbsp;(EU)&nbsp;2017/746 shall
 apply to the <span class="italics">in vitro</span> diagnostic medical device part of the device.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any device which, when placed on the 
market or put into service, incorporates, as an integral part, a 
substance which, if used separately, would be considered to be a 
medicinal product as defined in point&nbsp;2 of Article&nbsp;1 of 
Directive&nbsp;2001/83/EC, including a medicinal product derived from 
human blood or human plasma as defined in point&nbsp;10 of 
Article&nbsp;1 of that Directive, and that has an action ancillary to 
that of the device, shall be assessed and authorised in accordance with 
this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">However, if the action of that substance is principal
 and not ancillary to that of the device, the integral product shall be 
governed by Directive&nbsp;2001/83/EC or 
Regulation&nbsp;(EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;726/2004 of the European Parliament 
and of the Council&nbsp;(<a href="#E0001" id="src.E0001">
         <span class="superscript">1</span>
      </a>), as applicable. In that case, the relevant general safety 
and performance requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;I to this Regulation 
shall apply as far as the safety and performance of the device part are 
concerned.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any device which is intended to 
administer a medicinal product as defined in point&nbsp;2 of 
Article&nbsp;1 of Directive&nbsp;2001/83/EC shall be governed by this 
Regulation, without prejudice to the provisions of that 
Directive&nbsp;and of Regulation&nbsp;(EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;726/2004 with 
regard to the medicinal product.</p>
   <p class="norm">However, if the device intended to administer a 
medicinal product and the medicinal product are placed on the market in 
such a way that they form a single integral product which is intended 
exclusively for use in the given combination and which is not reusable, 
that single integral product shall be governed by 
Directive&nbsp;2001/83/EC or Regulation&nbsp;(EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;726/2004,
 as applicable. In that case, the relevant general safety and 
performance requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;I to this Regulation 
shall apply as far as the safety and performance of the device part of 
the single integral product are concerned.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any device which, when placed on the 
market or put into service, incorporates, as an integral part, 
non-viable tissues or cells of human origin or their derivatives that 
have an action ancillary to that of the device shall be assessed and 
authorised in accordance with this Regulation. In that case, the 
provisions for donation, procurement and testing laid down in 
Directive&nbsp;2004/23/EC shall apply.</p>
   <p class="norm">However, if the action of those tissues or cells or 
their derivatives is principal and not ancillary to that of the device 
and the product is not governed by 
Regulation&nbsp;(EC)&nbsp;No&nbsp;1394/2007, the product shall be 
governed by Directive&nbsp;2004/23/EC. In that case, the relevant 
general safety and performance requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;I to 
this Regulation shall apply as far as the safety and performance of the 
device part are concerned.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;This Regulation is specific Union 
legislation within the meaning of Article&nbsp;2(3) of 
Directive&nbsp;2014/30/EU.</p>
   <p class="norm">12.&nbsp;&nbsp;Devices that are also machinery within
 the meaning of point&nbsp;(a) of the second paragraph&nbsp;of 
Article&nbsp;2 of Directive&nbsp;2006/42/EC of the European Parliament 
and of the Council&nbsp;(<a href="#E0002" id="src.E0002">
         <span class="superscript">2</span>
      </a>) shall, where a hazard relevant under that 
Directive&nbsp;exists, also meet the essential health and safety 
requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;I to that Directive&nbsp;to the 
extent to which those requirements are more specific than the general 
safety and performance requirements set out in Chapter&nbsp;II of 
Annex&nbsp;I to this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">13.&nbsp;&nbsp;This Regulation shall not affect the application of Directive&nbsp;2013/59/Euratom.</p>
   <p class="norm">14.&nbsp;&nbsp;This Regulation shall not affect the 
right of a Member&nbsp;State to restrict the use of any specific type of
 device in relation to aspects not covered by this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">15.&nbsp;&nbsp;This Regulation shall not affect 
national law concerning the organisation, delivery or financing of 
health services and medical care, such as the requirement that certain 
devices may only be supplied on a medical prescription, the requirement 
that only certain health professionals or healthcare institutions may 
dispense or use certain devices or that their use be accompanied by 
specific professional counselling.</p>
   <p class="norm">16.&nbsp;&nbsp;Nothing in this Regulation shall 
restrict the freedom of the press or the freedom of expression in the 
media in so far as those freedoms are guaranteed in the Union and in the
 Member&nbsp;States, in particular under Article&nbsp;11 of the Charter 
of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.</p>