
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:language" content="en">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:version" content="current">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:docusaurus_tag" content="docs-default-current">
        ---
sidebar_position: 3
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Regulatory status of products</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Without prejudice to Article&nbsp;2(2) 
of Directive&nbsp;2001/83/EC, upon a duly substantiated request of a 
Member&nbsp;State, the Commission shall, after consulting the Medical 
Device Coordination Group established under Article&nbsp;103 of this 
Regulation&nbsp;(‘MDCG’), by means of implementing acts, determine 
whether or not a specific product, or category or group of products, 
falls within the definitions of ‘medical device’ or ‘accessory for a 
medical device’. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance 
with the examination procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(3) of 
this Regulation.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission may also, on its own 
initiative, after consulting the MDCG, decide, by means of implementing 
acts, on the issues referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article. 
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the 
examination procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission shall ensure that Member&nbsp;States share expertise in the fields of medical devices, <span class="italics">in vitro</span>
 diagnostic medical devices, medicinal products, human tissues and 
cells, cosmetics, biocides, food and, if necessary, other products, in 
order to determine the appropriate regulatory status of a product, or 
category or group of products.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;When deliberating on the possible 
regulatory status as a device of products involving medicinal products, 
human tissues and cells, biocides or food products, the Commission shall
 ensure an appropriate level of consultation of the European Medicines 
Agency&nbsp;(EMA), the European Chemicals Agency&nbsp;(ECHA) and the 
European Food Safety Authority&nbsp;(EFSA), as relevant.</p>
   <p>
      
      
   </p>
   