---
sidebar_position: 1
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Definitions</p>
   <p class="norm">For the purposes of this Regulation, the following definitions apply:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(1)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘medical device’ means any instrument, 
apparatus, appliance, software, implant, reagent, material or other 
article intended by the manufacturer to be used, alone or in 
combination, for human beings for one or more of the following specific 
medical purposes:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">diagnosis, prevention, monitoring, prediction, prognosis, treatment or alleviation of disease,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">diagnosis, monitoring, treatment, alleviation of, or compensation for, an injury or disability,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">investigation, replacement or modification of the anatomy or of a physiological or pathological process or state,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">providing information by means of <span class="italics">in vitro</span> examination of specimens derived from the human body, including organ, blood and tissue donations,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <p class="list">and which does not achieve its principal 
intended action by pharmacological, immunological or metabolic means, in
 or on the human body, but which may be assisted in its function by such
 means.</p>
         <p class="list">The following products shall also be deemed to be medical devices:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">devices for the control or support of conception;</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">products specifically intended for the 
cleaning, disinfection or sterilisation of devices as referred to in 
Article&nbsp;1(4) and of those referred to in the first 
paragraph&nbsp;of this point.</div>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(2)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘accessory for a medical device’ means an 
article which, whilst not being itself a medical device, is intended by 
its manufacturer to be used together with one or several particular 
medical device(s) to specifically enable the medical device(s) to be 
used in accordance with its/their intended purpose(s) or to specifically
 and directly assist the medical functionality of the medical device(s) 
in terms of its/their intended purpose(s);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(3)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘custom-made device’ means any device 
specifically made in accordance with a written prescription of any 
person authorised by national law by virtue of that person's 
professional qualifications which gives, under that person's 
responsibility, specific design characteristics, and is intended for the
 sole use of a particular patient exclusively to meet their individual 
conditions and needs.</p>
         <p class="list">However, mass-produced devices which need to be
 adapted to meet the specific requirements of any professional user and 
devices which are mass-produced by means of industrial manufacturing 
processes in accordance with the written prescriptions of any authorised
 person shall not be considered to be custom-made devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(4)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘active device’ means any device, the operation
 of which depends on a source of energy other than that generated by the
 human body for that purpose, or by gravity, and which acts by changing 
the density of or converting that energy. Devices intended to transmit 
energy, substances or other elements between an active device and the 
patient, without any significant change, shall not be deemed to be 
active devices.</p>
         <p class="list">Software shall also be deemed to be an active device;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(5)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘implantable device’ means any device, including those that are partially or wholly absorbed, which is intended:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">to be totally introduced into the human body, or</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">to replace an epithelial surface or the surface of the eye,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <p class="list">by clinical intervention and which is intended to remain in place after the procedure.</p>
         <p class="list">Any device intended to be partially introduced 
into the human body by clinical intervention and intended to remain in 
place after the procedure for at least 30&nbsp;days shall also be deemed
 to be an implantable device;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(6)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘invasive device’ means any device which, in 
whole or in part, penetrates inside the body, either through a body 
orifice or through the surface of the body;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(7)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘generic device group’ means a set of devices 
having the same or similar intended purposes or a commonality of 
technology allowing them to be classified in a generic manner not 
reflecting specific characteristics;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(8)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘single-use device’ means a device that is intended to be used on one individual during a single procedure;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(9)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘falsified device’ means any device with a 
false presentation of its identity and/or of its source and/or its 
CE&nbsp;marking certificates or documents relating to CE&nbsp;marking 
procedures. This definition does not include unintentional 
non-compliance and is without prejudice to infringements of intellectual
 property rights;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(10)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘procedure pack’ means a combination of 
products packaged together and placed on the market with the purpose of 
being used for a specific medical purpose;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(11)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘system’ means a combination of products, 
either packaged together or not, which are intended to be 
inter-connected or combined to achieve a specific medical purpose;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(12)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘intended purpose’ means the use for which a 
device is intended according to the data supplied by the manufacturer on
 the label, in the instructions for use or in promotional or sales 
materials or statements and as specified by the manufacturer in the 
clinical evaluation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(13)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘label’ means the written, printed or graphic 
information appearing either on the device itself, or on the packaging 
of each unit or on the packaging of multiple devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(14)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘instructions for use’ means the information 
provided by the manufacturer to inform the user of a device's intended 
purpose and proper use and of any precautions to be taken;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(15)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘Unique Device Identifier’ (‘UDI’) means a 
series of numeric or alphanumeric characters that is created through 
internationally accepted device identification and coding standards and 
that allows unambiguous identification of specific devices on the 
market;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(16)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘non-viable’ means having no potential for metabolism or multiplication;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(17)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘derivative’ means a ‘non-cellular substance’ 
extracted from human or animal tissue or cells through a manufacturing 
process. The final substance used for manufacturing of the device in 
this case does not contain any cells or tissues;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(18)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘nanomaterial’ means a natural, incidental or 
manufactured material containing particles in an unbound state or as an 
aggregate or as an agglomerate and where, for&nbsp;50&nbsp;% or more of 
the particles in the number size distribution, one or more external 
dimensions is in the size range 1-100&nbsp;nm;</p>
         <p class="list">Fullerenes, graphene flakes and single-wall 
carbon nanotubes with one or more external dimensions below 1&nbsp;nm 
shall also be deemed to be nanomaterials;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(19)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘particle’, for the purposes of the definition 
of nanomaterial in point&nbsp;(18), means a minute piece of matter with 
defined physical boundaries;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(20)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘agglomerate’, for the purposes of the 
definition of nanomaterial in point&nbsp;(18), means a collection of 
weakly bound particles or aggregates where the resulting external 
surface area is similar to the sum of the surface areas of the 
individual components;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(21)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘aggregate’, for the purposes of the definition
 of nanomaterial in point&nbsp;(18), means a particle comprising of 
strongly bound or fused particles;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(22)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘performance’ means the ability of a device to achieve its intended purpose as stated by the manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(23)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘risk’ means the combination of the probability of occurrence of harm and the severity of that harm;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(24)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘benefit-risk determination’ means the analysis
 of all assessments of benefit and risk of possible relevance for the 
use of the device for the intended purpose, when used in accordance with
 the intended purpose given by the manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(25)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘compatibility’ is the ability of a device, 
including software, when used together with one or more other devices in
 accordance with its intended purpose, to:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">perform without losing or compromising the ability to perform as intended, and/or</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">integrate and/or operate without the need for modification or adaption of any part of the combined devices, and/or</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">be used together without conflict/interference or adverse reaction.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(26)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘interoperability’ is the ability of two or 
more devices, including software, from the same manufacturer or from 
different manufacturers, to:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">exchange information and use the 
information that has been exchanged for the correct execution of a 
specified function without changing the content of the data, and/or</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">communicate with each other, and/or</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">work together as intended.</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(27)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘making available on the market’ means any 
supply of a device, other than an investigational device, for 
distribution, consumption or use on the Union market in the course of a 
commercial activity, whether in return for payment or free of charge;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(28)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘placing on the market’ means the first making available of a device, other than an investigational device, on the Union market;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(29)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘putting into service’ means the stage at which
 a device, other than an investigational device, has been made available
 to the final user as being ready for use on the Union market for the 
first time for its intended purpose;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="modref">
      <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745R%2801%29" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745R(01): REPLACED">▼C1</a><a class="anchorarrow" id="C1-1" href="#C1-2"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
   </p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(30)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘manufacturer’ means a natural or legal person 
who manufactures or fully refurbishes a device or has a device designed,
 manufactured or fully refurbished, and markets that device under its 
name or trade mark;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="modref">
      <a href="https://eur-lex.europa.eu/legal-content/EN/AUTO/?uri=celex:32017R0745" onclick="window.open(this.href,'_blanc'); return false;" title="32017R0745">▼B</a><a class="anchorarrow" id="B-2" href="#B-3"><i class="fa fa-arrow-down" title="NEXT" ></i></a>
   </p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(31)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘fully refurbishing’, for the purposes of the 
definition of manufacturer, means the complete rebuilding of a device 
already placed on the market or put into service, or the making of a new
 device from used devices, to bring it into conformity with this 
Regulation, combined with the assignment of a new lifetime to the 
refurbished device;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(32)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘authorised representative’ means any natural 
or legal person established within the Union who has received and 
accepted a written mandate from a manufacturer, located outside the 
Union, to act on the manufacturer's behalf in relation to specified 
tasks with regard to the latter's obligations under this Regulation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(33)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘importer’ means any natural or legal person 
established within the Union that places a device from a third country 
on the Union market;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(34)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘distributor’ means any natural or legal person
 in the supply chain, other than the manufacturer or the importer, that 
makes a device available on the market, up until the point of putting 
into service;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(35)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘economic operator’ means a manufacturer, an 
authorised representative, an importer, a distributor or the person 
referred to in Article&nbsp;22(1) and 22(3);</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(36)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘health institution’ means an organisation the 
primary purpose of which is the care or treatment of patients or the 
promotion of public health;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(37)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘user’ means any healthcare professional or lay person who uses a device;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(38)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘lay person’ means an individual who does not have formal education in a relevant field of healthcare or medical discipline;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(39)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘reprocessing’ means a process carried out on a
 used device in order to allow its safe reuse including cleaning, 
disinfection, sterilisation and related procedures, as well as testing 
and restoring the technical and functional safety of the used device;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(40)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘conformity assessment’ means the process 
demonstrating whether the requirements of this Regulation relating to a 
device have been fulfilled;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(41)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘conformity assessment body’ means a body that 
performs third-party conformity assessment activities including 
calibration, testing, certification and inspection;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(42)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘notified body’ means a conformity assessment body designated in accordance with this Regulation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(43)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘CE marking of conformity’ or ‘CE marking’ 
means a marking by which a manufacturer indicates that a device is in 
conformity with the applicable requirements set out in this Regulation 
and other applicable Union harmonisation legislation providing for its 
affixing;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(44)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘clinical evaluation’ means a systematic and 
planned process to continuously generate, collect, analyse and assess 
the clinical data pertaining to a device in order to verify the safety 
and performance, including clinical benefits, of the device when used as
 intended by the manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(45)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘clinical investigation’ means any systematic 
investigation involving one or more human subjects, undertaken to assess
 the safety or performance of a device;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(46)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘investigational device’ means a device that is assessed in a clinical investigation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(47)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘clinical investigation plan’ means a document 
that describes the rationale, objectives, design, methodology, 
monitoring, statistical considerations, organisation and conduct of a 
clinical investigation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(48)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘clinical data’ means information concerning 
safety or performance that is generated from the use of a device and is 
sourced from the following:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">clinical investigation(s) of the device concerned,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">clinical investigation(s) or other 
studies reported in scientific literature, of a device for which 
equivalence to the device in question can be demonstrated,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">reports published in peer reviewed 
scientific literature on other clinical experience of either the device 
in question or a device for which equivalence to the device in question 
can be demonstrated,</div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>—&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <div class="list">clinically relevant information coming from post-market surveillance, in particular the post-market clinical follow-up;</div>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(49)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘sponsor’ means any individual, company, 
institution or organisation which takes responsibility for the 
initiation, for the management and setting up of the financing of the 
clinical investigation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(50)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘subject’ means an individual who participates in a clinical investigation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(51)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘clinical evidence’ means clinical data and 
clinical evaluation results pertaining to a device of a sufficient 
amount and quality to allow a qualified assessment of whether the device
 is safe and achieves the intended clinical benefit(s), when used as 
intended by the manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(52)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘clinical performance’ means the ability of a 
device, resulting from any direct or indirect medical effects which stem
 from its technical or functional characteristics, including diagnostic 
characteristics, to achieve its intended purpose as claimed by the 
manufacturer, thereby leading to a clinical benefit for patients, when 
used as intended by the manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(53)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘clinical benefit’ means the positive impact of
 a device on the health of an individual, expressed in terms of a 
meaningful, measurable, patient-relevant clinical outcome(s), including 
outcome(s) related to diagnosis, or a positive impact on patient 
management or public health;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(54)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘investigator’ means an individual responsible for the conduct of a clinical investigation at a clinical investigation site;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(55)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘informed consent’ means a subject's free and 
voluntary expression of his or her willingness to participate in a 
particular clinical investigation, after having been informed of all 
aspects of the clinical investigation that are relevant to the subject's
 decision to participate or, in the case of minors and of incapacitated 
subjects, an authorisation or agreement from their legally designated 
representative to include them in the clinical investigation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(56)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘ethics committee’ means an independent body 
established in a Member&nbsp;State in accordance with the law of that 
Member&nbsp;State and empowered to give opinions for the purposes of 
this Regulation, taking into account the views of laypersons, in 
particular patients or patients' organisations;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(57)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘adverse event’ means any untoward medical 
occurrence, unintended disease or injury or any untoward clinical signs,
 including an abnormal laboratory finding, in subjects, users or other 
persons, in the context of a clinical investigation, whether or not 
related to the investigational device;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(58)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘serious adverse event’ means any adverse event that led to any of the following:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">death,</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">serious deterioration in the health of the subject, that resulted in any of the following:</p>
               <div class="grid-container grid-list">
                  <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
                     <span>(i)&nbsp;</span>
                  </div>
                  <div class="grid-list-column-2">
                     <p class="norm">life-threatening illness or injury,</p>
                  </div>
               </div>
               <div class="grid-container grid-list">
                  <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
                     <span>(ii)&nbsp;</span>
                  </div>
                  <div class="grid-list-column-2">
                     <p class="norm">permanent impairment of a body structure or a body function,</p>
                  </div>
               </div>
               <div class="grid-container grid-list">
                  <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
                     <span>(iii)&nbsp;</span>
                  </div>
                  <div class="grid-list-column-2">
                     <p class="norm">hospitalisation or prolongation of patient hospitalisation,</p>
                  </div>
               </div>
               <div class="grid-container grid-list">
                  <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
                     <span>(iv)&nbsp;</span>
                  </div>
                  <div class="grid-list-column-2">
                     <p class="norm">medical or surgical intervention to
 prevent life-threatening illness or injury or permanent impairment to a
 body structure or a body function,</p>
                  </div>
               </div>
               <div class="grid-container grid-list">
                  <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
                     <span>(v)&nbsp;</span>
                  </div>
                  <div class="grid-list-column-2">
                     <p class="norm">chronic disease,</p>
                  </div>
               </div>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">foetal distress, foetal death or a congenital physical or mental impairment or birth defect;</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(59)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘device deficiency’ means any inadequacy in the
 identity, quality, durability, reliability, safety or performance of 
an&nbsp;investigational device, including malfunction, use errors or 
inadequacy in information supplied by the manufacturer;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(60)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘post-market surveillance’ means all activities
 carried out by manufacturers in cooperation with other economic 
operators to institute and keep up to date a systematic procedure to 
proactively collect and review experience gained from devices they place
 on the market, make available on the market or put into service for the
 purpose of identifying any need to immediately apply any necessary 
corrective or preventive actions;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(61)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘market surveillance’ means the activities 
carried out and measures taken by competent authorities to check and 
ensure that devices comply with the requirements set out in the relevant
 Union harmonisation legislation and do not endanger health, safety or 
any other aspect of public interest protection;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(62)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘recall’ means any measure aimed at achieving the return of a device that has already been made available to the end user;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(63)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘withdrawal’ means any measure aimed at preventing a device in the supply chain from being further made available on the market;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(64)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘incident’ means any malfunction or 
deterioration in the characteristics or performance of a device made 
available on the market, including use-error due to ergonomic features, 
as well as any inadequacy in the information supplied by the 
manufacturer and any undesirable side-effect;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(65)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘serious incident’ means any incident that directly or indirectly led, might have led or might lead to any of the following:</p>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">the death of a patient, user or other person,</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">the temporary or permanent serious deterioration of a patient's, user's or other person's state of health,</p>
            </div>
         </div>
         <div class="grid-container grid-list">
            <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
               <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
            </div>
            <div class="grid-list-column-2">
               <p class="norm">a serious public health threat;</p>
            </div>
         </div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(66)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘serious public health threat’ means an event 
which could result in imminent risk of death, serious deterioration in a
 person's state of health, or serious illness, that may require prompt 
remedial action, and that may cause significant morbidity or mortality 
in humans, or that is unusual or unexpected for the given place and 
time;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(67)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘corrective action’ means action taken to 
eliminate the cause of a potential or actual non-conformity or other 
undesirable situation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(68)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘field safety corrective action’ means 
corrective action taken by a manufacturer for technical or medical 
reasons to prevent or reduce the risk of a serious incident in relation 
to a device made available on the market;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(69)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘field safety notice’ means a communication 
sent by a manufacturer to users or customers in relation to a field 
safety corrective action;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(70)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘harmonised standard’ means a European standard
 as defined in point&nbsp;(1)(c) of Article&nbsp;2 of 
Regulation&nbsp;(EU)&nbsp;No&nbsp;1025/2012;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(71)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">‘common specifications’ (CS) means a set of 
technical and/or clinical requirements, other than a standard, that 
provides a means of complying with the legal obligations applicable to a
 device, process or system.</p>
      </div>
   </div>