---
sidebar_position: 43
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Monitoring and re-assessment of notified bodies</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Notified bodies shall, without delay, 
and at the latest within 15 days, inform the authority responsible for 
notified bodies of relevant changes which may affect their compliance 
with the requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;VII or their ability to 
conduct the conformity assessment activities relating to the devices for
 which they have been designated.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authorities responsible for 
notified bodies shall monitor the notified bodies established on their 
territory and their subsidiaries and subcontractors to ensure ongoing 
compliance with the requirements and the fulfilment of its obligations 
set out in this Regulation. Notified bodies shall, upon request by their
 authority responsible for notified bodies, supply all relevant 
information and documents, required to enable the authority, the 
Commission and other Member&nbsp;States to verify compliance.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the Commission or the authority 
of a Member&nbsp;State submits a request to a notified body established 
on the territory of another Member&nbsp;State relating to a conformity 
assessment carried out by that notified body, it shall send a copy of 
that request to the authority responsible for notified bodies of that 
other Member&nbsp;State. The notified body concerned shall respond 
without delay and within 15 days at the latest to the request. The 
authority responsible for notified bodies of the Member&nbsp;State in 
which the body is established shall ensure that requests submitted by 
authorities of any other Member&nbsp;State or by the Commission are 
resolved by the notified body unless there is a legitimate reason for 
not doing so in which case the matter may be referred to the MDCG.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;At least once a year, the authorities 
responsible for notified bodies shall re-assess whether the notified 
bodies established on their respective territory and, where appropriate,
 the subsidiaries and subcontractors under the responsibility of those 
notified bodies still satisfy the requirements and fulfil their 
obligations set out in Annex&nbsp;VII. That review shall include an 
on-site audit of each notified body and, where necessary, of its 
subsidiaries and subcontractors.</p>
   <p class="norm">The authority responsible for notified bodies shall 
conduct its monitoring and assessment activities according to an annual 
assessment plan to ensure that it can effectively monitor the continued 
compliance of the notified body with the requirements of this 
Regulation. That plan shall provide a reasoned schedule for the 
frequency of assessment of the notified body and, in particular, 
associated subsidiaries and subcontractors. The authority shall submit 
its annual plan for monitoring or assessment for each notified body for 
which it is responsible to the MDCG and to the Commission.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The monitoring of notified bodies by 
the authority responsible for notified bodies shall include observed 
audits of notified body personnel, including where necessary any 
personnel from subsidiaries and subcontractors, as that personnel is in 
the process of conducting quality management system assessments at a 
manufacturer's facility.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The monitoring of notified bodies 
conducted by the authority responsible for notified bodies shall 
consider data arising from market surveillance, vigilance and 
post-market surveillance to help guide its activities.</p>
   <p class="norm">The authority responsible for notified bodies shall 
provide for a systematic follow-up of complaints and other information, 
including from other Member&nbsp;States, which may indicate 
non-fulfilment of the obligations by a notified body or its deviation 
from common or best practice.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies may in addition to regular monitoring or on-site assessments 
conduct short-notice, unannounced or ‘for-cause’ reviews if needed to 
address a particular issue or to verify compliance.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall review the assessments by notified bodies of manufacturers'
 technical documentation, in particular the clinical evaluation 
documentation as further outlined in <a href='../CHAPTER IV/Article 45 - Review of notified body assessment of technical documentation and clinical evaluation documentation'> Article 45</a>.</p>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;The authority responsible for notified 
bodies shall document and record any findings regarding non-compliance 
of the notified body with the requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;VII and
 shall monitor the timely implementation of corrective and preventive 
actions.</p>
   <p class="norm">10.&nbsp;&nbsp;Three years after notification of a 
notified body, and again every fourth year thereafter, a complete 
re-assessment to determine whether the notified body still satisfies the
 requirements set out in Annex&nbsp;VII shall be conducted by the 
authority responsible for notified bodies of the Member&nbsp;State in 
which the body is established and by a joint assessment team appointed 
for the purpose of the procedure described in Articles&nbsp;38 
and&nbsp;39.</p>
   <p class="norm">11.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission is empowered to adopt 
delegated acts in accordance with <a href='../CHAPTER X/Article 115 - Exercise of the delegation'> Article 115</a> in order to amend 
paragraph&nbsp;10 to modify the frequency at which the complete 
re-assessment referred to in that paragraph&nbsp;is to be carried out.</p>
   <p class="norm">12.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Member&nbsp;States shall report to
 the Commission and to the MDCG, at least once a year, on their 
monitoring and on-site assessment activities regarding notified bodies 
and, where applicable, subsidiaries and subcontractors. The report shall
 provide details of the outcome of those activities, including 
activities pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;7, and shall be treated as 
confidential by the MDCG and the Commission; however it shall contain a 
summary which shall be made publicly available.</p>
   <p class="norm">The summary of the report shall be uploaded to the electronic system referred to in <a href='../CHAPTER V/Article 57 - Electronic system on notified bodies and on certificates of conformity'> Article 57</a>.</p>