
---
sidebar_position: 97
---
        <h3>market-surveillance</h3>
<h1>Preventive-health-protection-measures</h1>
<h2>Article 98</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Preventive health protection measures</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where a Member&nbsp;State, after having
 performed an evaluation which indicates a potential risk related to a 
device or a specific category or group of devices, considers that, in 
order to protect the health and safety of patients, users or other 
persons or other aspects of public health, the making available on the 
market or putting into service of a device or a specific category or 
group of devices should be prohibited, restricted or made subject to 
particular requirements or that such device or category or group of 
devices should be withdrawn from the market or recalled, it may take any
 necessary and justified measures.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Member&nbsp;State referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;1 shall immediately notify the Commission and all other 
Member&nbsp;States, giving the reasons for its decision, by means of the
 electronic system referred to in Article&nbsp;100.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission, in consultation with 
the MDCG and, where necessary, the economic operators concerned, shall 
assess the national measures taken. The Commission may decide, by means 
of implementing acts, whether the national measures are justified or 
not. In the absence of a Commission decision within six months of their 
notification, the national measures shall be considered to be justified.
 Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the 
examination procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the assessment referred to in 
paragraph&nbsp;3 of this Article&nbsp;demonstrates that the making 
available on the market or putting into service of a device, specific 
category or group of devices should be prohibited, restricted or made 
subject to particular requirements or that such device or category or 
group of devices should be withdrawn from the market or recalled in all 
Member&nbsp;States in order to protect the health and safety of 
patients, users or other persons or other aspects of public health, the 
Commission may adopt implementing acts to take the necessary and duly 
justified measures. Those implementing acts shall be adopted in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>