
---
sidebar_position: 95
---
        <h3>market-surveillance</h3>
<h1>Procedure-for-evaluating-national-measures-at-Union-level</h1>
<h2>Article 96</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Procedure for evaluating national measures at Union level</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where, within two months of receipt of 
the notification referred to in Article&nbsp;95(4), objections are 
raised by a Member&nbsp;State against a measure taken by another 
Member&nbsp;State, or where the Commission considers the measure to be 
contrary to Union law, the Commission shall, after consulting the 
competent authorities concerned and, where necessary, the economic 
operators concerned, evaluate that national measure. On the basis of the
 results of that evaluation, the Commission may decide, by means of 
implementing acts, whether or not the national measure is justified. 
Those implementing acts shall be adopted in accordance with the 
examination procedure referred to in Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where the Commission considers the 
national measure to be justified as referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 of 
this Article, the second subparagraph&nbsp;of Article&nbsp;95(7) shall 
apply. If the Commission considers the national measure to be 
unjustified, the Member&nbsp;State concerned shall withdraw the measure.</p>
   <p class="norm">Where the Commission does not adopt a decision 
pursuant to paragraph&nbsp;1 of this Article&nbsp;within eight months of
 receipt of the notification referred to in Article&nbsp;95(4), the 
national measure shall be considered to be justified.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;Where a Member&nbsp;State or the 
Commission considers that the risk to health and safety emanating from a
 device cannot be mitigated satisfactorily by means of measures taken by
 the Member&nbsp;State or Member&nbsp;States concerned, the Commission, 
at the request of a Member&nbsp;State or on its own initiative, may 
take, by means of implementing acts, the necessary and duly justified 
measures to ensure the protection of health and safety, including 
measures restricting or prohibiting the placing on the market and 
putting into service of the device concerned. Those implementing acts 
shall be adopted in accordance with the examination procedure referred 
to in Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>