
---
sidebar_position: 28
---
        <h3>identification-and-traceability-of-devices--registration-of-devices-and-of-economic-operators-summary-of-safety--and-clinical-performance-european-database-on-medical-devices</h3>
<h1>Registration-of-devices</h1>
<h2>Article 29</h2>
   <p class="stitle-article-norm">Registration of devices</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Before placing a device, other than a 
custom-made device, on the market, the manufacturer shall, in accordance
 with the rules of the issuing entity referred to in Article&nbsp;27(2),
 assign a Basic UDI-DI as defined in Part C of Annex&nbsp;VI to the 
device and shall provide it to the UDI database together with the other 
core data elements referred to in Part B of Annex&nbsp;VI related to 
that device.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Before placing on the market a system 
or procedure pack pursuant to Article&nbsp;22(1) and (3), that is not a 
custom-made device, the natural or legal person responsible shall assign
 to the system or procedure pack, in compliance with the rules of the 
issuing entity, a Basic UDI-DI and shall provide it to the UDI database 
together with the other core data elements referred to in Part B of 
Annex&nbsp;VI related to that system or procedure pack.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;For devices that are the subject of a 
conformity assessment as referred to in Article&nbsp;52(3) and in the 
second and third subparagraphs&nbsp;of Article&nbsp;52(4), the 
assignment of a Basic UDI-DI referred to in paragraph&nbsp;1 of this 
Article&nbsp;shall be done before the manufacturer applies to a notified
 body for that assessment.</p>
   <p class="norm">For the devices referred to in the first 
subparagraph, the notified body shall include a reference to the Basic 
UDI-DI on the certificate issued in accordance with point&nbsp;(a) of 
Section&nbsp;4 of Chapter I of Annex&nbsp;XII and confirm in Eudamed 
that the information referred to in Section&nbsp;2.2 of Part A of 
Annex&nbsp;VI is correct. After the issuing of the relevant certificate 
and before placing the device on the market, the manufacturer shall 
provide the Basic UDI-DI to the UDI database together with the other 
core data elements referred to in Part B of Annex&nbsp;VI related to 
that device.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;Before placing a device on the market, 
other than a custom-made device, the manufacturer shall enter or if, 
already provided, verify in Eudamed the information referred to in 
Section&nbsp;2 of Part A of Annex&nbsp;VI, with the exception of 
Section&nbsp;2.2 thereof, and shall thereafter keep the information 
updated.</p>