
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:language" content="en">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:version" content="current">
<meta data-rh="true" name="docsearch:docusaurus_tag" content="docs-default-current">
        ---
sidebar_position: 50
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Classification of devices</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;Devices shall be divided into classes 
I, IIa, IIb and III, taking into account the intended purpose of the 
devices and their inherent risks. Classification shall be carried out in
 accordance with Annex&nbsp;VIII.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Any dispute between the manufacturer 
and the notified body concerned, arising from the application of 
Annex&nbsp;VIII, shall be referred for a decision to the competent 
authority of the Member&nbsp;State in which the manufacturer has its 
registered place of business. In cases where the manufacturer has no 
registered place of business in the Union and has not yet designated an 
authorised representative, the matter shall be referred to the competent
 authority of the Member&nbsp;State in which the authorised 
representative referred to in the last indent of point&nbsp;(b) of the 
second paragraph&nbsp;of Section&nbsp;2.2 of Annex&nbsp;IX has its 
registered place of business. Where the notified body concerned is 
established in a Member&nbsp;State other than that of the manufacturer, 
the competent authority shall adopt its decision after consultation with
 the competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State that designated the 
notified body.</p>
   <p class="norm">The competent authority of the Member&nbsp;State in 
which the manufacturer has its registered place of business shall notify
 the MDCG and the Commission of its decision. The decision shall be made
 available upon request.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;At the request of a Member&nbsp;State 
the Commission shall after consulting the MDCG, decide, by means of 
implementing acts, on the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">application of Annex&nbsp;VIII to a given 
device, or category or group of devices, with a view to determining the 
classification of such devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">that a device, or category or group of devices,
 shall for reasons of public health based on new scientific evidence, or
 based on any information which becomes available in the course of the 
vigilance and market surveillance activities be reclassified, by way of 
derogation from Annex&nbsp;VIII.</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The Commission may also, on its own 
initiative and after consulting the MDCG, decide, by means of 
implementing acts, on the issues referred to in points (a) and (b) of 
paragraph&nbsp;3.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;In order to ensure the uniform 
application of Annex&nbsp;VIII, and taking account of the relevant 
scientific opinions of the relevant scientific committees, the 
Commission may adopt implementing acts to the extent necessary to 
resolve issues of divergent interpretation and of practical application.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The implementing acts referred to in 
paragraphs 3, 4 and 5 of this Article&nbsp;shall be adopted in 
accordance with the examination procedure referred to in 
Article&nbsp;114(3).</p>
   <p>
      
      
   </p>
   