---
sidebar_position: 102
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Medical Device Coordination Group</p>
   <p class="norm">1.&nbsp;&nbsp;A Medical Device Coordination Group (‘MDCG’) is hereby established.</p>
   <p class="norm">2.&nbsp;&nbsp;Each Member&nbsp;State shall appoint to
 the MDCG, for a three-year term which may be renewed, one member and 
one alternate each with expertise in the field of medical devices, and 
one member and one alternate with expertise in the field of <span class="italics">in vitro</span>
 diagnostic medical devices. A Member&nbsp;State may choose to appoint 
only one member and one alternate, each with expertise in both fields.</p>
   <p class="norm">The members of the MDCG shall be chosen for their competence and experience in the field of medical devices and <span class="italics">in vitro</span>
 diagnostic medical devices. They shall represent the competent 
authorities of the Member&nbsp;States. The names and affiliation of 
members shall be made public by the Commission.</p>
   <p class="norm">The alternates shall represent and vote for the members in their absence.</p>
   <p class="norm">3.&nbsp;&nbsp;The MDCG shall meet at regular 
intervals and, where the situation requires, upon request by the 
Commission or a Member&nbsp;State. The meetings shall be attended either
 by the members appointed for their role and expertise in the field of 
medical devices, or by the members appointed for their expertise in the 
field of <span class="italics">in vitro</span> diagnostic medical 
devices, or by the members appointed for their expertise in both fields,
 or their alternates, as appropriate.</p>
   <p class="norm">4.&nbsp;&nbsp;The MDCG shall use its best endeavours 
to reach consensus. If such consensus cannot be reached, the MDCG shall 
decide by a majority of its members. Members with diverging positions 
may request that their positions and the grounds on which they are based
 be recorded in the MDCG's position.</p>
   <p class="norm">5.&nbsp;&nbsp;The MDCG shall be chaired by a 
representative of the Commission. The chair shall not take part in votes
 of the MDCG.</p>
   <p class="norm">6.&nbsp;&nbsp;The MDCG may invite, on a case-by-case 
basis, experts and other third parties to attend meetings or provide 
written contributions.</p>
   <p class="norm">7.&nbsp;&nbsp;The MDCG may establish standing or 
temporary sub-groups. Where appropriate, organisations representing the 
interests of the medical device industry, healthcare professionals, 
laboratories, patients and consumers at Union level shall be invited to 
such sub-groups in the capacity of observers.</p>
   <p class="norm">8.&nbsp;&nbsp;The MDCG shall establish its rules of procedure which shall, in particular, lay down procedures for the following:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the adoption of opinions or recommendations or other positions, including in cases of urgency;</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the delegation of tasks to reporting and co-reporting members;</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the implementation of [Article&nbsp;107](../cooperation between memberstates  medical device coordination group expert laboratories expert panels  and device registersArticle 107 - Conflict of interests.md) regarding conflict of interests;</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>—&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <div class="list">the functioning of sub-groups.</div>
      </div>
   </div>
   <p class="norm">9.&nbsp;&nbsp;The MDCG shall have the tasks laid down
 in [Article&nbsp;105](../cooperation between memberstates  medical device coordination group expert laboratories expert panels  and device registersArticle 105 - Tasks of the MDCG.md) of this Regulation and [Article&nbsp;99](../market surveillanceArticle 99 - Good administrative practice.md) of 
Regulation (EU)&nbsp;2017/746.</p>