---
sidebar_position: 104
---
           <p class="stitle-article-norm">Tasks of the MDCG</p>
   <p class="norm">Under this Regulation, the MDCG shall have the following tasks:</p>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(a)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to contribute to the assessment of applicant 
conformity assessment bodies and notified bodies pursuant to the 
provisions set out in Chapter IV;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(b)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to advise the Commission, at its request, in 
matters concerning the coordination group of notified bodies as 
established pursuant to Article&nbsp;49;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(c)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to contribute to the development of guidance 
aimed at ensuring effective and harmonised implementation of this 
Regulation, in particular regarding the designation and monitoring of 
notified bodies, application of the general safety and performance 
requirements and conduct of clinical evaluations and investigations by 
manufacturers, assessment by notified bodies and vigilance activities;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(d)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to contribute to the continuous monitoring of 
technical progress and assessment of whether the general safety and 
performance requirements laid down in this Regulation and 
Regulation&nbsp;(EU)&nbsp;2017/746 are adequate to ensure safety and 
performance of devices, and thereby contribute to identifying whether 
there is a need to amend Annex&nbsp;I to this Regulation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(e)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to contribute to the development of device 
standards, of CS and of scientific guidelines, including product 
specific guidelines, on clinical investigation of certain devices in 
particular implantable devices and class III devices;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(f)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to assist the competent authorities of the 
Member&nbsp;States in their coordination activities in particular in the
 fields of classification and the determination of the regulatory status
 of devices, clinical investigations, vigilance and market surveillance 
including the development and maintenance of a framework for a European 
market surveillance programme with the objective of achieving efficiency
 and harmonisation of market surveillance in the Union, in accordance 
with Article&nbsp;93;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(g)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to provide advice, either on its own initiative
 or at request of the Commission, in the assessment of any issue related
 to the implementation of this Regulation;</p>
      </div>
   </div>
   <div class="grid-container grid-list">
      <div class="list grid-list-column-1">
         <span>(h)&nbsp;</span>
      </div>
      <div class="grid-list-column-2">
         <p class="norm">to contribute to harmonised administrative practice with regard to devices in the Member&nbsp;States.</p>
      </div>
   </div>